<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Working with LLMs - ash v3.5.33</title>
    <meta name="generator" content="ExDoc v0.38.2" />
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="dist/epub-elixir-FNUUKFP7.css" />
    <script src="dist/epub-4WIP524F.js"></script>

  </head>
  <body class="content-inner">

    <h1 id="content">Working with LLMs</h1>
<p>LLMs are a new technology, and the patterns on how best to leverage them evolve every day. It is also <em>quite</em> debatable whether it is a good idea to use them at all. Nothing in Ash will ever be predicated on the usage of these tools, but we do want to provide at least some level of base guidance on what we think are the best practices for those that do. This is also to help those who are interested in trying these tools but don't yet know where to start.</p><p>This guide is about working with LLM dev assistants, not about building LLM-related features or integrating them into your application. For that, see <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ash_ai">Ash AI</a>.</p><section role="note" class="admonition warning"><h3 id="getting-support-with-llm-generated-code" class="admonition-title warning">Getting Support with LLM generated code</h3><p>Please note that LLMs often hallucinate despite our best intentions. If you need help with something, and you come to our support channels, you <em>must</em> make it clear when the code you are asking for help with was generated by an LLM. You <em>must</em> first understand the code you've written yourself, and provide a detailed explanation of the code and the issue you are facing when requesting help. The discord and forums are not a place for others to debug LLM hallucinations.</p></section><h2 id="what-to-know">What to know</h2><p>To take advantage of LLMs, you will want to explore the following. You will have to make up your own mind on which avenues to explore and leverage in the following areas. This is essentially a &quot;big list of stuff you should research on your own&quot;.</p><ul><li>Language models - OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini, etc. Choice of language model will make the most difference in your experience.</li><li>Agentic editors - Zed, Windsurf, Cursor</li><li>Agentic assistants - Claude Code, Aider, Codex</li><li>Rules files - The name of these files are often specific to the editor, but they essentially boil down to &quot;stuff to put in the system prompt&quot; to guide the LLM's behavior.</li></ul><h2 id="tools">Tools</h2><p>We suggest setting up, where applicable, the following tools:</p><ul><li><a href="https://tidewave.ai">Tidewave</a>: Tidewave gives your LLMs the ability to interact with your running application. This can significantly improve the quality of the code generated by LLMs, and allows them to observe and interact with the running application, like reading logs and working with processes.</li><li><a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ash_ai">Ash AI</a>: Ash AI contains tools for building AI enabled applications, but it also comes with a dev MCP server where we will experiment with tools similar to what tidewave offers, but tailored to Ash and the way we work.</li></ul><h2 id="rules">Rules</h2><p>We are working on establishing a pattern whereby packages can provide a <code class="inline">usage-rules.md</code> which you can then combine into your own rules file. The idea here is to democratize the process of building rules, allowing you to adopt well vetted and quality rules files from the maintainers of projects. This has only been done for a few packages so far.</p><p>To leverage these rules files, you can simply copy them yourself if you'd prefer something more manual, or you can use a new mix task provided by the <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/usage_rules"><code class="inline">usage_rules</code></a> package to combine them into your own rules file.</p><h3 id="combine-all-of-your-direct-dependencies-usage-rules">Combine all of your (direct) dependencies usage rules</h3><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><span class="n">mix</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">usage_rules</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">sync</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">rules</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">--</span><span class="n">all</span></code></pre><h3 id="pick-specific-dependencies">Pick specific dependencies</h3><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><span class="n">mix</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">usage_rules</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">sync</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">rules</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="err">\</span><span class="w">
  </span><span class="n">ash</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">ash_postgres</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">ash_phoenix</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">ash_graphql</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">ash_json_api</span><span class="w"> </span><span class="n">ash_ai</span></code></pre><p>You can replace the <code class="inline">.rules</code> file with your own current rules file, and it will be appended to the contents. Repeated calls will only replace the package rules contents of the file, not the whole file contents.</p><p>Only dependencies of your current project will be added, and any dependencies that don't have rules are skipped.</p>

  </body>
</html>
