<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Kernel - Elixir v1.18.4</title>
    <meta name="generator" content="ExDoc v0.38.2" />
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="dist/epub-elixir-FNUUKFP7.css" />
    <script src="dist/epub-4WIP524F.js"></script>

  </head>
  <body class="content-inner">

    <h1 id="content">
Kernel 
    </h1>


      <section id="moduledoc" class="docstring">
<p><a href="Kernel.xhtml"><code class="inline">Kernel</code></a> is Elixir's default environment.</p><p>It mainly consists of:</p><ul><li>basic language primitives, such as arithmetic operators, spawning of processes,
data type handling, and others</li><li>macros for control-flow and defining new functionality (modules, functions, and the like)</li><li>guard checks for augmenting pattern matching</li></ul><p>You can invoke <a href="Kernel.xhtml"><code class="inline">Kernel</code></a> functions and macros anywhere in Elixir code
without the use of the <code class="inline">Kernel.</code> prefix since they have all been
automatically imported. For example, in IEx, you can call:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0803452813-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">13</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0803452813-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>If you don't want to import a function or macro from <a href="Kernel.xhtml"><code class="inline">Kernel</code></a>, use the <code class="inline">:except</code>
option and then list the function/macro by arity:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Kernel</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">except</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4815102049-1">[</samp><samp class="ss">if</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">unless</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4815102049-1">]</samp></code></pre><p>See <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#import/2"><code class="inline">import/2</code></a> for more information on importing.</p><p>Elixir also has special forms that are always imported and
cannot be skipped. These are described in <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml"><code class="inline">Kernel.SpecialForms</code></a>.</p><h2 id="module-the-standard-library">The standard library</h2><p><a href="Kernel.xhtml"><code class="inline">Kernel</code></a> provides the basic capabilities the Elixir standard library
is built on top of. It is recommended to explore the standard library
for advanced functionality. Here are the main groups of modules in the
standard library (this list is not a complete reference, see the
documentation sidebar for all entries).</p><h3 id="module-built-in-types">Built-in types</h3><p>The following modules handle Elixir built-in data types:</p><ul><li><a href="Atom.xhtml"><code class="inline">Atom</code></a> - literal constants with a name (<code class="inline">true</code>, <code class="inline">false</code>, and <code class="inline">nil</code> are atoms)</li><li><a href="Float.xhtml"><code class="inline">Float</code></a> - numbers with floating point precision</li><li><a href="Function.xhtml"><code class="inline">Function</code></a> - a reference to code chunk, created with the <code class="inline">fn/1</code> special form</li><li><a href="Integer.xhtml"><code class="inline">Integer</code></a> - whole numbers (not fractions)</li><li><a href="List.xhtml"><code class="inline">List</code></a> - collections of a variable number of elements (linked lists)</li><li><a href="Map.xhtml"><code class="inline">Map</code></a> - collections of key-value pairs</li><li><a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> - light-weight threads of execution</li><li><a href="Port.xhtml"><code class="inline">Port</code></a> - mechanisms to interact with the external world</li><li><a href="Tuple.xhtml"><code class="inline">Tuple</code></a> - collections of a fixed number of elements</li></ul><p>There are two data types without an accompanying module:</p><ul><li>Bitstring - a sequence of bits, created with <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#%3C%3C%3E%3E/1"><code class="inline">&lt;&lt;&gt;&gt;/1</code></a>.
When the number of bits is divisible by 8, they are called binaries and can
be manipulated with Erlang's <code class="inline">:binary</code> module</li><li>Reference - a unique value in the runtime system, created with <a href="#make_ref/0"><code class="inline">make_ref/0</code></a></li></ul><h3 id="module-data-types">Data types</h3><p>Elixir also provides other data types that are built on top of the types
listed above. Some of them are:</p><ul><li><a href="Date.xhtml"><code class="inline">Date</code></a> - <code class="inline">year-month-day</code> structs in a given calendar</li><li><a href="DateTime.xhtml"><code class="inline">DateTime</code></a> - date and time with time zone in a given calendar</li><li><a href="Exception.xhtml"><code class="inline">Exception</code></a> - data raised from errors and unexpected scenarios</li><li><a href="MapSet.xhtml"><code class="inline">MapSet</code></a> - unordered collections of unique elements</li><li><a href="NaiveDateTime.xhtml"><code class="inline">NaiveDateTime</code></a> - date and time without time zone in a given calendar</li><li><a href="Keyword.xhtml"><code class="inline">Keyword</code></a> - lists of two-element tuples, often representing optional values</li><li><a href="Range.xhtml"><code class="inline">Range</code></a> - inclusive ranges between two integers</li><li><a href="Regex.xhtml"><code class="inline">Regex</code></a> - regular expressions</li><li><a href="String.xhtml"><code class="inline">String</code></a> - UTF-8 encoded binaries representing characters</li><li><a href="Time.xhtml"><code class="inline">Time</code></a> - <code class="inline">hour:minute:second</code> structs in a given calendar</li><li><a href="URI.xhtml"><code class="inline">URI</code></a> - representation of URIs that identify resources</li><li><a href="Version.xhtml"><code class="inline">Version</code></a> - representation of versions and requirements</li></ul><h3 id="module-system-modules">System modules</h3><p>Modules that interface with the underlying system, such as:</p><ul><li><a href="IO.xhtml"><code class="inline">IO</code></a> - handles input and output</li><li><a href="File.xhtml"><code class="inline">File</code></a> - interacts with the underlying file system</li><li><a href="Path.xhtml"><code class="inline">Path</code></a> - manipulates file system paths</li><li><a href="System.xhtml"><code class="inline">System</code></a> - reads and writes system information</li></ul><h3 id="module-protocols">Protocols</h3><p>Protocols add polymorphic dispatch to Elixir. They are contracts
implementable by data types. See <a href="Protocol.xhtml"><code class="inline">Protocol</code></a> for more information on
protocols. Elixir provides the following protocols in the standard library:</p><ul><li><a href="Collectable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Collectable</code></a> - collects data into a data type</li><li><a href="Enumerable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enumerable</code></a> - handles collections in Elixir. The <a href="Enum.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enum</code></a> module
provides eager functions for working with collections, the <a href="Stream.xhtml"><code class="inline">Stream</code></a>
module provides lazy functions</li><li><a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> - converts data types into their programming language
representation</li><li><a href="List.Chars.xhtml"><code class="inline">List.Chars</code></a> - converts data types to their outside world
representation as charlists (non-programming based)</li><li><a href="String.Chars.xhtml"><code class="inline">String.Chars</code></a> - converts data types to their outside world
representation as strings (non-programming based)</li></ul><h3 id="module-process-based-and-application-centric-functionality">Process-based and application-centric functionality</h3><p>The following modules build on top of processes to provide concurrency,
fault-tolerance, and more.</p><ul><li><a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a> - a process that encapsulates mutable state</li><li><a href="Application.xhtml"><code class="inline">Application</code></a> - functions for starting, stopping and configuring
applications</li><li><a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> - a generic client-server API</li><li><a href="Registry.xhtml"><code class="inline">Registry</code></a> - a key-value process-based storage</li><li><a href="Supervisor.xhtml"><code class="inline">Supervisor</code></a> - a process that is responsible for starting,
supervising and shutting down other processes</li><li><a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a> - a process that performs computations</li><li><a href="Task.Supervisor.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task.Supervisor</code></a> - a supervisor for managing tasks exclusively</li></ul><h3 id="module-supporting-documents">Supporting documents</h3><p>Under the &quot;Pages&quot; section in sidebar you will find tutorials, guides,
and reference documents that outline Elixir semantics and behaviors
in more detail. Those are:</p><ul><li><a href="compatibility-and-deprecations.xhtml">Compatibility and deprecations</a> - lists
compatibility between every Elixir version and Erlang/OTP, release schema;
lists all deprecated functions, when they were deprecated and alternatives</li><li><a href="library-guidelines.xhtml">Library guidelines</a> - general guidelines, anti-patterns,
and rules for those writing libraries</li><li><a href="naming-conventions.xhtml">Naming conventions</a> - naming conventions for Elixir code</li><li><a href="operators.xhtml">Operators reference</a> - lists all Elixir operators and their precedences</li><li><a href="patterns-and-guards.xhtml">Patterns and guards</a> - an introduction to patterns,
guards, and extensions</li><li><a href="syntax-reference.xhtml">Syntax reference</a> - the language syntax reference</li><li><a href="typespecs.xhtml">Typespecs reference</a>- types and function specifications, including list of types</li><li><a href="unicode-syntax.xhtml">Unicode syntax</a> - outlines Elixir support for Unicode</li></ul><h2 id="module-guards">Guards</h2><p>This module includes the built-in guards used by Elixir developers.
They are a predefined set of functions and macros that augment pattern
matching, typically invoked after the <code class="inline">when</code> operator. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">drive</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7540665432-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7540665432-2">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="7540665432-2">User</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7540665432-2">{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7540665432-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7540665432-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">16</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7540665432-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">...</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7540665432-3">end</samp></code></pre><p>The clause above will only be invoked if the user's age is more than
or equal to 16. Guards also support joining multiple conditions with
<code class="inline">and</code> and <code class="inline">or</code>. The whole guard is true if all guard expressions will
evaluate to <code class="inline">true</code>. A more complete introduction to guards is available
in the <a href="patterns-and-guards.xhtml">Patterns and guards</a> page.</p><h2 id="module-truthy-and-falsy-values">Truthy and falsy values</h2><p>Besides the booleans <code class="inline">true</code> and <code class="inline">false</code>, Elixir has the
concept of a &quot;truthy&quot; or &quot;falsy&quot; value.</p><ul><li> a value is truthy when it is neither <code class="inline">false</code> nor <code class="inline">nil</code></li><li> a value is falsy when it is either <code class="inline">false</code> or <code class="inline">nil</code></li></ul><p>Elixir has functions, like <a href="#and/2"><code class="inline">and/2</code></a>, that <em>only</em> work with
booleans, but also functions that work with these
truthy/falsy values, like <a href="#&&/2"><code class="inline">&amp;&amp;/2</code></a> and <a href="#!/1"><code class="inline">!/1</code></a>.</p><h2 id="module-structural-comparison">Structural comparison</h2><p>The functions in this module perform structural comparison. This allows
different data types to be compared using comparison operators:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:an_atom</samp></code></pre><p>This is possible so Elixir developers can create collections, such as
dictionaries and ordered sets, that store a mixture of data types in them.
To understand why this matters, let's discuss the two types of comparisons
we find in software: <em>structural</em> and <em>semantic</em>.</p><p>Structural means we are comparing the underlying data structures and we often
want those operations to be as fast as possible, because it is used to power
several algorithms and data structures in the language. A semantic comparison
worries about what each data type represents. For example, semantically
speaking, it doesn't make sense to compare <a href="Time.xhtml"><code class="inline">Time</code></a> with <a href="Date.xhtml"><code class="inline">Date</code></a>.</p><p>One example that shows the differences between structural and semantic
comparisons are strings: &quot;alien&quot; sorts less than &quot;office&quot; (<code class="inline">&quot;alien&quot; &lt; &quot;office&quot;</code>)
but &quot;álien&quot; is greater than &quot;office&quot;. This happens because <code class="inline">&lt;</code> compares the
underlying bytes that form the string. If you were doing alphabetical listing,
you may want &quot;álien&quot; to also appear before &quot;office&quot;.</p><p>This means <strong>comparisons in Elixir are structural</strong>, as it has the goal
of comparing data types as efficiently as possible to create flexible
and performant data structures. This distinction is specially important
for functions that provide ordering, such as <a href="#%3E/2"><code class="inline">&gt;/2</code></a>, <a href="#%3C/2"><code class="inline">&lt;/2</code></a>, <a href="#%3E=/2"><code class="inline">&gt;=/2</code></a>,
<a href="#%3C=/2"><code class="inline">&lt;=/2</code></a>, <a href="#min/2"><code class="inline">min/2</code></a>, and <a href="#max/2"><code class="inline">max/2</code></a>. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~D[2017-03-31]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp></code></pre><p>will return <code class="inline">true</code> because structural comparison compares the <code class="inline">:day</code>
field before <code class="inline">:month</code> or <code class="inline">:year</code>. Luckily, the Elixir compiler will
detect whenever comparing structs or whenever comparing code that is
either always true or false, and emit a warning accordingly.</p><p>In order to perform semantic comparisons, the relevant data-types
provide a <code class="inline">compare/2</code> function, such as <a href="Date.xhtml#compare/2"><code class="inline">Date.compare/2</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Date</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">compare</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1803985186-1">(</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-03-31]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1803985186-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ss">:lt</samp></code></pre><p>Alternatively, you can use the functions in the <a href="Enum.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enum</code></a> module to
sort or compute a maximum/minimum:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">sort</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-2">[</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-03-31]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Date</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-3">[</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-03-31]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-3">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">max</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-5">[</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-03-31]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Date</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5681765009-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2017-04-01]</samp></code></pre><p>The second argument is precisely the module to be used for semantic
comparison. Keeping this distinction is important, because if semantic
comparison was used by default for implementing data structures and
algorithms, they could become orders of magnitude slower!</p><p>Finally, note there is an overall structural sorting order, called
&quot;Term Ordering&quot;, defined below. This order is provided for reference
purposes, it is not required by Elixir developers to know it by heart.</p><h3 id="module-term-ordering">Term ordering</h3><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">atom</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">reference</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">function</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">port</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">pid</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">tuple</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">bitstring</samp></code></pre><p>When comparing two numbers of different types (a number being either
an integer or a float), a conversion to the type with greater precision
will always occur, unless the comparison operator used is either <a href="#===/2"><code class="inline">===/2</code></a>
or <a href="#!==/2"><code class="inline">!==/2</code></a>. A float will be considered more precise than an integer, unless
the float is greater/less than +/-9007199254740992.0 respectively,
at which point all the significant figures of the float are to the left
of the decimal point. This behavior exists so that the comparison of large
numbers remains transitive.</p><p>The collection types are compared using the following rules:</p><ul><li>Tuples are compared by size, then element by element.</li><li>Maps are compared by size, then by key-value pairs.</li><li>Lists are compared element by element.</li><li>Bitstrings are compared byte by byte, incomplete bytes are compared bit by bit.</li><li>Atoms are compared using their string value, codepoint by codepoint.</li></ul><h3 id="module-examples">Examples</h3><p>We can check the truthiness of a value by using the <a href="#!/1"><code class="inline">!/1</code></a>
function twice.</p><p>Truthy values:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8163562002-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8163562002-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>Falsy values (of which there are exactly two):</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre><h2 id="module-inlining">Inlining</h2><p>Some of the functions described in this module are inlined by
the Elixir compiler into their Erlang counterparts in the
<a href="https://www.erlang.org/doc/apps/erts/erlang.html"><code class="inline">:erlang</code></a> module.
Those functions are called BIFs (built-in internal functions)
in Erlang-land and they exhibit interesting properties, as some
of them are allowed in guards and others are used for compiler
optimizations.</p><p>Most of the inlined functions can be seen in effect when
capturing the function:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">Kernel</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">:erlang</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre><p>Those functions will be explicitly marked in their docs as
&quot;inlined by the compiler&quot;.</p>
      </section>


      <section id="summary" class="details-list">
        <h1 class="section-heading">Summary</h1>
<div class="summary-guards summary">
  <h2>
    <a href="#guards">Guards</a>
  </h2>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#*/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left * right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic multiplication operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#+/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">+value</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic positive unary operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#+/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left + right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic addition operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#-/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">-value</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic negative unary operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#-/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left - right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic subtraction operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#//2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left / right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Arithmetic division operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#!=/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left != right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Not equal to operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#!==/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left !== right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Strictly not equal to operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%3C/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &lt; right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Less-than operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%3C=/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &lt;= right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Less-than or equal to operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#==/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left == right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Equal to operator. Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if the two terms are equal.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#===/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left === right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Strictly equal to operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%3E/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &gt; right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Greater-than operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%3E=/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &gt;= right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Greater-than or equal to operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#abs/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">abs(number)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns an integer or float which is the arithmetical absolute value of <code class="inline">number</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#and/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left and right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Strictly boolean &quot;and&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#binary_part/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">binary_part(binary, start, size)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Extracts the part of the binary at <code class="inline">start</code> with <code class="inline">size</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#bit_size/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">bit_size(bitstring)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns an integer which is the size in bits of <code class="inline">bitstring</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#byte_size/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">byte_size(bitstring)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the number of bytes needed to contain <code class="inline">bitstring</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#ceil/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">ceil(number)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to <code class="inline">number</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#div/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">div(dividend, divisor)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Performs an integer division.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#elem/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">elem(tuple, index)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Gets the element at the zero-based <code class="inline">index</code> in <code class="inline">tuple</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#floor/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">floor(number)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the largest integer smaller than or equal to <code class="inline">number</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#hd/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">hd(list)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the head of a list. Raises <a><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> if the list is empty.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left in right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Membership operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_atom/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_atom(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an atom, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_binary/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_binary(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a binary, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_bitstring/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_bitstring(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a bitstring (including a binary), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_boolean/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_boolean(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is either the atom <code class="inline">true</code> or the atom <code class="inline">false</code> (i.e.,
a boolean), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_exception/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_exception(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an exception, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_exception/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_exception(term, name)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an exception of <code class="inline">name</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_float/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_float(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a floating-point number, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_function/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_function(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a function, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_function/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_function(term, arity)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a function that can be applied with <code class="inline">arity</code> number of arguments;
otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_integer/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_integer(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an integer, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_list/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_list(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a list with zero or more elements, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_map/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_map(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a map, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_map_key/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_map_key(map, key)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">key</code> is a key in <code class="inline">map</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_nil/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_nil(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is <code class="inline">nil</code>, <code class="inline">false</code> otherwise.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_non_struct_map/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_non_struct_map(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a map that is not a struct, otherwise
returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_number/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_number(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is either an integer or a floating-point number;
otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_pid/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_pid(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a PID (process identifier), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_port/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_port(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a port identifier, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_reference/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_reference(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a reference, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_struct/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_struct(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a struct, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_struct/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_struct(term, name)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a struct of <code class="inline">name</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#is_tuple/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">is_tuple(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a tuple, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#length/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">length(list)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the length of <code class="inline">list</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#map_size/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">map_size(map)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the size of a map.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#node/0" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">node()</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns an atom representing the name of the local node.
If the node is not alive, <code class="inline">:nonode@nohost</code> is returned instead.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#node/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">node(arg)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the node where the given argument is located.
The argument can be a PID, a reference, or a port.
If the local node is not alive, <code class="inline">:nonode@nohost</code> is returned.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#not/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">not value</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Strictly boolean &quot;not&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#or/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left or right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Strictly boolean &quot;or&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#rem/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">rem(dividend, divisor)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Computes the remainder of an integer division.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#round/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">round(number)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Rounds a number to the nearest integer.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#self/0" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">self()</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the PID (process identifier) of the calling process.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#tl/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">tl(list)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the tail of a list. Raises <a><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> if the list is empty.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#trunc/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">trunc(number)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the integer part of <code class="inline">number</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#tuple_size/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">tuple_size(tuple)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the size of a tuple.</p></div>

    </div>

</div>
<div class="summary-functions summary">
  <h2>
    <a href="#functions">Functions</a>
  </h2>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#&&/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &amp;&amp; right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Boolean &quot;and&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#**/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">base ** exponent</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Power operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#++/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left ++ right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>List concatenation operator. Concatenates a proper list and a term, returning a list.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#--/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left -- right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>List subtraction operator. Removes the first occurrence of an element
on the left list for each element on the right.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#../0" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">..</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Creates the full-slice range <code class="inline">0..-1//1</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#../2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">first..last</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Creates a range from <code class="inline">first</code> to <code class="inline">last</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#..///3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">first..last//step</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Creates a range from <code class="inline">first</code> to <code class="inline">last</code> with <code class="inline">step</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#!/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">!value</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Boolean &quot;not&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%3C%3E/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left &lt;&gt; right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Binary concatenation operator. Concatenates two binaries.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#=~/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left =~ right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Text-based match operator. Matches the term on the <code class="inline">left</code>
against the regular expression or string on the <code class="inline">right</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#@/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">@expr</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Module attribute unary operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#alias!/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">alias!(alias)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>When used inside quoting, marks that the given alias should not
be hygienized. This means the alias will be expanded when
the macro is expanded.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#apply/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">apply(fun, args)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Invokes the given anonymous function <code class="inline">fun</code> with the list of
arguments <code class="inline">args</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#apply/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">apply(module, function_name, args)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Invokes the given function from <code class="inline">module</code> with the list of
arguments <code class="inline">args</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#binary_slice/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">binary_slice(binary, range)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns a binary from the offset given by the start of the
range to the offset given by the end of the range.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#binary_slice/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">binary_slice(binary, start, size)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns a binary starting at the offset <code class="inline">start</code> and of the given <code class="inline">size</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#binding/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">binding(context \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the binding for the given context as a keyword list.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#dbg/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">dbg(code \\ quote do
  binding()
end, options \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Debugs the given <code class="inline">code</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#def/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">def(call, expr \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a public function with the given name and body.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defdelegate/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defdelegate(funs, opts)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a function that delegates to another module.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defexception/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defexception(fields)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines an exception.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defguard/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defguard(guard)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a macro suitable for use in guard expressions.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defguardp/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defguardp(guard)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a private macro suitable for use in guard expressions.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defimpl/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defimpl(name, opts, do_block \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines an implementation for the given protocol.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defmacro/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defmacro(call, expr \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a public macro with the given name and body.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defmacrop/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defmacrop(call, expr \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a private macro with the given name and body.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defmodule/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defmodule(alias, do_block)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a module given by name with the given contents.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defoverridable/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defoverridable(keywords_or_behaviour)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Makes the given definitions in the current module overridable.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defp/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defp(call, expr \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a private function with the given name and body.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defprotocol/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defprotocol(name, do_block)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a protocol.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#defstruct/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">defstruct(fields)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Defines a struct.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#destructure/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">destructure(left, right)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Destructures two lists, assigning each term in the
right one to the matching term in the left one.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#exit/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">exit(reason)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Stops the execution of the calling process with the given reason.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#function_exported?/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">function_exported?(module, function, arity)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">module</code> is loaded and contains a
public <code class="inline">function</code> with the given <code class="inline">arity</code>, otherwise <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#get_and_update_in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">get_and_update_in(path, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Gets a value and updates a nested data structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#get_and_update_in/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">get_and_update_in(data, keys, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Gets a value and updates a nested structure.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#get_in/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">get_in(path)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Gets a key from the nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>, with
nil-safe handling.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#get_in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">get_in(data, keys)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Gets a value from a nested structure with nil-safe handling.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#if/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">if(condition, clauses)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Provides an <a><code class="inline">if/2</code></a> macro.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#inspect/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">inspect(term, opts \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Inspects the given argument according to the <a><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> protocol.
The second argument is a keyword list with options to control
inspection.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#macro_exported?/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">macro_exported?(module, macro, arity)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">module</code> is loaded and contains a
public <code class="inline">macro</code> with the given <code class="inline">arity</code>, otherwise <code class="inline">false</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#make_ref/0" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">make_ref()</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns an almost unique reference.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#match?/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">match?(pattern, expr)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>A convenience macro that checks if the right side (an expression) matches the
left side (a pattern).</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#max/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">max(first, second)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the biggest of the two given terms according to
their structural comparison.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#min/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">min(first, second)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Returns the smallest of the two given terms according to
their structural comparison.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#pop_in/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">pop_in(path)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Pops a key from the nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#pop_in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">pop_in(data, keys)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Pops a key from the given nested structure.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#put_elem/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">put_elem(tuple, index, value)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Puts <code class="inline">value</code> at the given zero-based <code class="inline">index</code> in <code class="inline">tuple</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#put_in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">put_in(path, value)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Puts a value in a nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#put_in/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">put_in(data, keys, value)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Puts a value in a nested structure.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#raise/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">raise(message)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Raises an exception.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#raise/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">raise(exception, attributes)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Raises an exception.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#reraise/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">reraise(message, stacktrace)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Raises an exception preserving a previous stacktrace.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#reraise/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">reraise(exception, attributes, stacktrace)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Raises an exception preserving a previous stacktrace.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#send/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">send(dest, message)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Sends a message to the given <code class="inline">dest</code> and returns the message.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_C/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_C(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~C</code> for charlists.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_c/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_c(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~c</code> for charlists.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_D/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_D(date_string, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~D</code> for dates.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_N/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_N(naive_datetime_string, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~N</code> for naive date times.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_r/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_r(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~r</code> for regular expressions.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_S/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_S(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~S</code> for strings.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_s/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_s(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~s</code> for strings.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_T/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_T(time_string, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~T</code> for times.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_U/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_U(datetime_string, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~U</code> to create a UTC <a><code class="inline">DateTime</code></a>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_W/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_W(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~W</code> for list of words.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#sigil_w/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">sigil_w(term, modifiers)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~w</code> for list of words.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn(fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given function and returns its PID.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn(module, fun, args)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given function <code class="inline">fun</code> from the given <code class="inline">module</code> passing it the given
<code class="inline">args</code> and returns its PID.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn_link/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn_link(fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given function, links it to the current process, and returns its PID.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn_link/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn_link(module, fun, args)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given function <code class="inline">fun</code> from the given <code class="inline">module</code> passing it the given
<code class="inline">args</code>, links it to the current process, and returns its PID.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn_monitor/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn_monitor(fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given function, monitors it and returns its PID
and monitoring reference.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#spawn_monitor/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">spawn_monitor(module, fun, args)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Spawns the given module and function passing the given args,
monitors it and returns its PID and monitoring reference.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#struct/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">struct(struct, fields \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Creates and updates a struct.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#struct!/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">struct!(struct, fields \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Similar to <a><code class="inline">struct/2</code></a> but checks for key validity.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#tap/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">tap(value, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Pipes the first argument, <code class="inline">value</code>, into the second argument, a function <code class="inline">fun</code>,
and returns <code class="inline">value</code> itself.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#then/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">then(value, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Pipes the first argument, <code class="inline">value</code>, into the second argument, a function <code class="inline">fun</code>,
and returns the result of calling <code class="inline">fun</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#throw/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">throw(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>A non-local return from a function.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#to_charlist/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">to_charlist(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Converts the given term to a charlist according to the <a><code class="inline">List.Chars</code></a> protocol.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#to_string/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">to_string(term)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Converts the argument to a string according to the
<a><code class="inline">String.Chars</code></a> protocol.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#to_timeout/1" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">to_timeout(duration)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Constructs a millisecond timeout from the given components, duration, or timeout.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#unless/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">unless(condition, clauses)</a>

          <span class="deprecated" title="Use if/2 instead">deprecated</span>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Provides an <code class="inline">unless</code> macro.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#update_in/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">update_in(path, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Updates a nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#update_in/3" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">update_in(data, keys, fun)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Updates a key in a nested structure.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#use/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">use(module, opts \\ [])</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Uses the given module in the current context.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#var!/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">var!(var, context \\ nil)</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Marks that the given variable should not be hygienized.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%7C%3E/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left |&gt; right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Pipe operator.</p></div>

    </div>

    <div class="summary-row">
      <div class="summary-signature">
        <a href="#%7C%7C/2" data-no-tooltip="" translate="no">left || right</a>

      </div>

        <div class="summary-synopsis"><p>Boolean &quot;or&quot; operator.</p></div>

    </div>

</div>

      </section>


      <section id="guards" class="details-list">
        <h1 class="section-heading">Guards</h1>

        <div class="guards-list">
<section class="detail" id="*/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#*/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left * right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1505" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() * <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() * <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() * <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() * <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic multiplication operator.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="*/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#*/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="+/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#+/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">+value</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1465" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> +<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> +<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic positive unary operator.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="+/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#+/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="+/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#+/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left + right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1427" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() + <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() + <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() + <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() + <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic addition operator.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="+/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#+/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="-/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#-/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">-value</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1485" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> -0 :: 0</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> -<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pos_integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">neg_integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> -<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">neg_integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pos_integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> -<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic negative unary operator.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="-/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#-/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="-/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#-/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left - right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1447" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() - <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() - <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() - <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() - <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic subtraction operator.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="-/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#-/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="//2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#//2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left / right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1536" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>() / <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Arithmetic division operator.</p><p>The result is always a float. Use <a href="#div/2"><code class="inline">div/2</code></a> and <a href="#rem/2"><code class="inline">rem/2</code></a> if you want
an integer division or the remainder.</p><p>Raises <a href="ArithmeticError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArithmeticError</code></a> if <code class="inline">right</code> is 0 or 0.0.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="//2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#//2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 0.5</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">3.0</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">2.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; -1.5</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 5.0</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="mi">7</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArithmeticError) bad argument in arithmetic expression</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="!=/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#!=/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left != right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1797" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() != <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Not equal to operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if the two terms are not equal.</p><p>This operator considers 1 and 1.0 to be equal. For match
comparison, use <a href="#!==/2"><code class="inline">!==/2</code></a> instead.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="!=/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#!=/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">!=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">!=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">1.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="!==/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#!==/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left !== right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1857" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() !== <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Strictly not equal to operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if the two terms are not exactly equal.
See <a href="#===/2"><code class="inline">===/2</code></a> for a definition of what is considered &quot;exactly equal&quot;.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="!==/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#!==/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">!==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">!==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">1.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%3C/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%3C/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &lt; right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1667" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() &lt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Less-than operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> is less than <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="%3C/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%3C/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%3C=/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%3C=/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &lt;= right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1715" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() &lt;= <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Less-than or equal to operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> is less than or equal to <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="%3C=/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%3C=/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="==/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#==/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left == right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1767" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() == <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Equal to operator. Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if the two terms are equal.</p><p>This operator considers 1 and 1.0 to be equal. For stricter
semantics, use <a href="#===/2"><code class="inline">===/2</code></a> instead.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="==/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#==/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">1.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="===/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#===/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left === right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1829" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() === <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Strictly equal to operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if the two terms are exactly equal.</p><p>The terms are only considered to be exactly equal if they
have the same value and are of the same type. For example,
<code class="inline">1 == 1.0</code> returns <code class="inline">true</code>, but since they are of different
types, <code class="inline">1 === 1.0</code> returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="===/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#===/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">===</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">===</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">1.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%3E/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%3E/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &gt; right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1691" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() &gt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Greater-than operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> is more than <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="%3E/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%3E/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%3E=/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%3E=/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &gt;= right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1739" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() &gt;= <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Greater-than or equal to operator.</p><p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> is more than or equal to <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="%3E=/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%3E=/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="abs/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#abs/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">abs(number)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L327" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> abs(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns an integer or float which is the arithmetical absolute value of <code class="inline">number</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="abs/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#abs/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">abs</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0749116564-1">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">3.33</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0749116564-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mf">3.33</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">abs</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0749116564-2">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0749116564-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="and/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#and/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left and right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1965" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Strictly boolean &quot;and&quot; operator.</p><p>If <code class="inline">left</code> is <code class="inline">false</code>, returns <code class="inline">false</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>Requires only the <code class="inline">left</code> operand to be a boolean since it short-circuits. If
the <code class="inline">left</code> operand is not a boolean, a <a href="BadBooleanError.xhtml"><code class="inline">BadBooleanError</code></a> exception is raised.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="and/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#and/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;yay!&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;yay!&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;yay!&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (BadBooleanError) expected a boolean on left-side of &quot;and&quot;, got: &quot;yay!&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="binary_part/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#binary_part/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">binary_part(binary, start, size)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L406" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> binary_part(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">binary</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">binary</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Extracts the part of the binary at <code class="inline">start</code> with <code class="inline">size</code>.</p><p>If <code class="inline">start</code> or <code class="inline">size</code> reference in any way outside the binary,
an <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> exception is raised.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="binary_part/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#binary_part/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_part</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306229106-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306229106-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;oo&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>A negative <code class="inline">size</code> can be used to extract bytes that come <em>before</em> the byte
at <code class="inline">start</code>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_part</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7558856658-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7558856658-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;llo&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>An <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> is raised when the <code class="inline">size</code> is outside of the binary:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">binary_part</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3967351835-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3967351835-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) argument error</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="bit_size/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#bit_size/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">bit_size(bitstring)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L426" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> bit_size(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">bitstring</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns an integer which is the size in bits of <code class="inline">bitstring</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="bit_size/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#bit_size/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">bit_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-2">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">433</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">16</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-2">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">19</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">bit_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-4">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-4">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0347003314-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">24</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="byte_size/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#byte_size/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">byte_size(bitstring)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L450" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> byte_size(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">bitstring</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the number of bytes needed to contain <code class="inline">bitstring</code>.</p><p>That is, if the number of bits in <code class="inline">bitstring</code> is not divisible by 8, the
resulting number of bytes will be rounded up (by excess). This operation
happens in constant time.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="byte_size/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#byte_size/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">byte_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-2">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">433</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">16</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-2">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">byte_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-4">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-4">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6438174724-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="ceil/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#ceil/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">ceil(number)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.8.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L476" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> ceil(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to <code class="inline">number</code>.</p><p>If you want to perform ceil operation on other decimal places,
use <a href="Float.xhtml#ceil/2"><code class="inline">Float.ceil/2</code></a> instead.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="ceil/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#ceil/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">ceil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">ceil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-2">(</samp><samp class="mf">10.1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">11</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">ceil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-3">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">10.1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8576412479-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="div/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#div/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">div(dividend, divisor)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L511" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> div(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">neg_integer</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pos_integer</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Performs an integer division.</p><p>Raises an <a href="ArithmeticError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArithmeticError</code></a> exception if one of the arguments is not an
integer, or when the <code class="inline">divisor</code> is <code class="inline">0</code>.</p><p><a href="#div/2"><code class="inline">div/2</code></a> performs <em>truncated</em> integer division. This means that
the result is always rounded towards zero.</p><p>If you want to perform floored integer division (rounding towards negative infinity),
use <a href="Integer.xhtml#floor_div/2"><code class="inline">Integer.floor_div/2</code></a> instead.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="div/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#div/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">div</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 2</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">div</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-2">(</samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; -1</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">div</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-3">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">99</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; -49</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">div</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-4">(</samp><samp class="mi">100</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5975164278-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArithmeticError) bad argument in arithmetic expression</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="elem/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#elem/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">elem(tuple, index)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1883" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> elem(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">tuple</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Gets the element at the zero-based <code class="inline">index</code> in <code class="inline">tuple</code>.</p><p>It raises <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> when index is negative or it is out of range of the tuple elements.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="elem/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#elem/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">tuple</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">elem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-2">(</samp><samp class="n">tuple</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; :bar</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">elem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-4">{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-4">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) argument error</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">elem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-6">{</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-6">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4910243599-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) argument error</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="floor/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#floor/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">floor(number)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.8.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L603" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> floor(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the largest integer smaller than or equal to <code class="inline">number</code>.</p><p>If you want to perform floor operation on other decimal places,
use <a href="Float.xhtml#floor/2"><code class="inline">Float.floor/2</code></a> instead.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="floor/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#floor/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">floor</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">floor</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-2">(</samp><samp class="mf">9.7</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">9</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">floor</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-3">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">9.7</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5144210885-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="hd/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#hd/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">hd(list)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L632" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> hd(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">nonempty_maybe_improper_list</a>(elem, <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>())) :: elem when elem: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the head of a list. Raises <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> if the list is empty.</p><p>The head of a list is its first element.</p><p>It works with improper lists.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="hd/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#hd/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">hd</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 1</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">hd</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2983677762-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 1</samp></code></pre><p>Giving it an empty list raises:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">hd</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4332874892-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4332874892-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4332874892-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4332874892-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) argument error</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left in right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4539" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Membership operator.</p><p>Checks if the element on the left-hand side is a member of the
collection on the right-hand side.</p><h2 id="in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8030471446-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8030471446-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>This operator (which is a macro) simply translates to a call to
<a href="Enum.xhtml#member?/2"><code class="inline">Enum.member?/2</code></a>. The example above would translate to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">member?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3826769242-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3826769242-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3826769242-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3826769242-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Elixir also supports <code class="inline">left not in right</code>, which evaluates to
<code class="inline">not(left in right)</code>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">not</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5269670658-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5269670658-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre><h2 id="in/2-guards" class="section-heading"><a href="#in/2-guards" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Guards</span></h2><p>The <a href="#in/2"><code class="inline">in/2</code></a> operator (as well as <code class="inline">not in</code>) can be used in guard clauses as
long as the right-hand side is a range or a list.</p><p>If the right-hand side is a list, Elixir will expand the operator to a valid
guard expression which needs to check each value. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7645740254-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7645740254-1">]</samp></code></pre><p>translates to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">===</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">or</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">===</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">or</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">===</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre><p>However, this construct will be inefficient for large lists. In such cases, it
is best to stop using guards and use a more appropriate data structure, such
as <a href="MapSet.xhtml"><code class="inline">MapSet</code></a>.</p><p>If the right-hand side is a range, a more efficient comparison check will be
done. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">1000</samp></code></pre><p>translates roughly to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1000</samp></code></pre><h3 id="in/2-ast-considerations" class="section-heading"><a href="#in/2-ast-considerations" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">AST considerations</span></h3><p><code class="inline">left not in right</code> is parsed by the compiler into the AST:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">:not</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-3">{</samp><samp class="ss">:in</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-4">[</samp><samp class="n">left</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">right</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4632876285-1">}</samp></code></pre><p>This is the same AST as <code class="inline">not(left in right)</code>.</p><p>Additionally, <a href="Macro.xhtml#to_string/2"><code class="inline">Macro.to_string/2</code></a> and <a href="Code.xhtml#format_string!/2"><code class="inline">Code.format_string!/2</code></a>
will translate all occurrences of this AST to <code class="inline">left not in right</code>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_atom/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_atom/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_atom(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L662" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_atom(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an atom, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Note <code class="inline">true</code>, <code class="inline">false</code>, and <code class="inline">nil</code> are atoms in Elixir, as well as
module names. Therefore this function will return <code class="inline">true</code> to all
of those values.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_atom/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_atom/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:name</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-2">(</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-3">(</samp><samp class="nc">AnAtom</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_atom</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-4">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;string&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7908700552-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_binary/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_binary/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_binary(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L683" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_binary(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a binary, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>A binary always contains a complete number of bytes.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_binary/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_binary/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_binary</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_binary</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-3">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-3">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5845700601-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_bitstring/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_bitstring/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_bitstring(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L702" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_bitstring(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a bitstring (including a binary), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_bitstring/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_bitstring/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_bitstring</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_bitstring</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-3">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-3">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2353334382-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_boolean/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_boolean/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_boolean(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L726" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_boolean(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is either the atom <code class="inline">true</code> or the atom <code class="inline">false</code> (i.e.,
a boolean), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_boolean/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_boolean/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_boolean</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-1">(</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_boolean</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-2">(</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_boolean</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-3">(</samp><samp class="ss">:test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0720613595-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_exception/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_exception/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_exception(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.11.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2646" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an exception, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="is_exception/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_exception/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-2">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="1756268571-2">RuntimeError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-2">{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-4">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-4">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1756268571-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_exception/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_exception/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_exception(term, name)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.11.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2684" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an exception of <code class="inline">name</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="is_exception/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_exception/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-2">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="2450354365-2">RuntimeError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-2">{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">RuntimeError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-4">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="2450354365-4">RuntimeError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-4">{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-4">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Macro.Env</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2450354365-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_float/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_float/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_float(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L737" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_float(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a floating-point number, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_function/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_function/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_function(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L757" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_function(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a function, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_function/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_function/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_function</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3557073002-1">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3557073002-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3557073002-2">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3557073002-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_function</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3557073002-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;not a function&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3557073002-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_function/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_function/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_function(term, arity)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L777" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_function(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a function that can be applied with <code class="inline">arity</code> number of arguments;
otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_function/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_function/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_function</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8096817463-1">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8096817463-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8096817463-2">end</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8096817463-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_function</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8096817463-3">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8096817463-4">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8096817463-4">end</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8096817463-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_integer/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_integer/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_integer(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L788" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_integer(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is an integer, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_list/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_list/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_list(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L799" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_list(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a list with zero or more elements, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_map/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_map/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_map(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L882" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_map(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a map, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><section role="note" class="admonition info"><h4 class="admonition-title info">Structs are maps</h4><p>Structs are also maps, and many of Elixir data structures are implemented
using structs: <a href="Range.xhtml"><code class="inline">Range</code></a>s, <a href="Regex.xhtml"><code class="inline">Regex</code></a>es, <a href="Date.xhtml"><code class="inline">Date</code></a>s...</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0274450621-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0274450621-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0274450621-2">(</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2024-04-18]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0274450621-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>If you mean to specifically check for non-struct maps, use
<a href="#is_non_struct_map/1"><code class="inline">is_non_struct_map/1</code></a> instead.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_non_struct_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4090606761-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4090606761-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre></section>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_map_key/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_map_key/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_map_key(map, key)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.10.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L903" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_map_key(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">map</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">key</code> is a key in <code class="inline">map</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>It raises <a href="BadMapError.xhtml"><code class="inline">BadMapError</code></a> if the first element is not a map.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="is_map_key/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_map_key/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_map_key</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_map_key</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-4">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-4">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:c</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5475016669-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_nil/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_nil/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_nil(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3428" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is <code class="inline">nil</code>, <code class="inline">false</code> otherwise.</p><p>Allowed in guard clauses.</p><h2 id="is_nil/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_nil/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_nil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2542747802-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2542747802-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_nil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2542747802-2">(</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2542747802-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_non_struct_map/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_non_struct_map/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_non_struct_map(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.17.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2608" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a map that is not a struct, otherwise
returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="is_non_struct_map/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_non_struct_map/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_non_struct_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-2">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_non_struct_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-3">(</samp><samp class="nc">URI</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">parse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-4">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;/&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-4">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_non_struct_map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-5">(</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9621310583-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_number/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_number/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_number(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L811" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_number(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is either an integer or a floating-point number;
otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_pid/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_pid/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_pid(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L822" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_pid(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a PID (process identifier), otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_port/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_port/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_port(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L833" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_port(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a port identifier, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_reference/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_reference/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_reference(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L844" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_reference(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a reference, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_struct/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_struct/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_struct(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.10.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2520" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a struct, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="is_struct/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_struct/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">URI</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">parse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;/&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-2">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-4">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-4">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7001677389-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_struct/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_struct/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_struct(term, name)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.11.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2560" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a struct of <code class="inline">name</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p><a href="#is_struct/2"><code class="inline">is_struct/2</code></a> does not check that <code class="inline">name</code> exists and is a valid struct.
If you want such validations, you must pattern match on the struct
instead, such as <code class="inline">match?(%URI{}, arg)</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="is_struct/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#is_struct/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">URI</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">parse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;/&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">URI</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">is_struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-3">(</samp><samp class="nc">URI</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">parse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-4">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;/&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-4">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Macro.Env</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6766123899-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="is_tuple/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#is_tuple/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">is_tuple(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L855" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> is_tuple(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">term</code> is a tuple, otherwise returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="length/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#length/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">length(list)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L920" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> length(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the length of <code class="inline">list</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="length/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#length/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">length</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7482936382-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7482936382-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">7</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">8</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">9</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7482936382-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7482936382-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">9</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="map_size/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#map_size/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">map_size(map)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L960" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> map_size(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">map</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the size of a map.</p><p>The size of a map is the number of key-value pairs that the map contains.</p><p>This operation happens in constant time.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="map_size/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#map_size/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">map_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8473020268-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8473020268-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8473020268-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8473020268-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="node/0">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#node/0" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">node()</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1024" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> node() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">node</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns an atom representing the name of the local node.
If the node is not alive, <code class="inline">:nonode@nohost</code> is returned instead.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="node/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#node/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">node(arg)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1037" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> node(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">reference</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">port</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">node</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the node where the given argument is located.
The argument can be a PID, a reference, or a port.
If the local node is not alive, <code class="inline">:nonode@nohost</code> is returned.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="not/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#not/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">not value</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1643" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> not true :: false</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> not false :: true</pre>

      </div>

<p>Strictly boolean &quot;not&quot; operator.</p><p><code class="inline">value</code> must be a boolean; if it's not, an <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> exception is raised.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="not/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#not/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ow">not</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="or/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#or/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left or right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1934" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Strictly boolean &quot;or&quot; operator.</p><p>If <code class="inline">left</code> is <code class="inline">true</code>, returns <code class="inline">true</code>, otherwise returns <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>Requires only the <code class="inline">left</code> operand to be a boolean since it short-circuits.
If the <code class="inline">left</code> operand is not a boolean, a <a href="BadBooleanError.xhtml"><code class="inline">BadBooleanError</code></a> exception is
raised.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests.</p><h2 id="or/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#or/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">or</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">or</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">42</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">42</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">42</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">or</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (BadBooleanError) expected a boolean on left-side of &quot;or&quot;, got: 42</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="rem/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#rem/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">rem(dividend, divisor)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1062" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> rem(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">neg_integer</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pos_integer</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Computes the remainder of an integer division.</p><p><a href="#rem/2"><code class="inline">rem/2</code></a> uses truncated division, which means that
the result will always have the sign of the <code class="inline">dividend</code>.</p><p>Raises an <a href="ArithmeticError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArithmeticError</code></a> exception if one of the arguments is not an
integer, or when the <code class="inline">divisor</code> is <code class="inline">0</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="rem/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#rem/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">rem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0306834006-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0306834006-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">rem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0306834006-2">(</samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0306834006-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="round/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#round/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">round(number)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1096" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> round(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Rounds a number to the nearest integer.</p><p>If the number is equidistant to the two nearest integers, rounds away from zero.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="round/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#round/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-1">(</samp><samp class="mf">5.6</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-2">(</samp><samp class="mf">5.2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-3">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">9.9</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-4">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">9</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">9</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-5">(</samp><samp class="mf">2.5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">round</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-6">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">2.5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9003759114-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="self/0">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#self/0" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">self()</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1130" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> self() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the PID (process identifier) of the calling process.</p><p>Allowed in guard clauses. Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="tl/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#tl/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">tl(list)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1365" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> tl(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">nonempty_maybe_improper_list</a>(elem, last)) ::
  <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">maybe_improper_list</a>(elem, last) | last
when elem: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), last: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the tail of a list. Raises <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> if the list is empty.</p><p>The tail of a list is the list without its first element.</p><p>It works with improper lists.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="tl/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#tl/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">tl</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:go</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; [2, 3, :go]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">tl</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-4">[</samp><samp class="ss">:one</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; []</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">tl</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:b</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:improper_end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; [:b | :improper_end]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">tl</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-7">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-8">[</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-8">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6984963057-7">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %{b: 1}</samp></code></pre><p>Giving it an empty list raises:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">tl</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8150041228-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8150041228-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8150041228-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8150041228-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) argument error</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="trunc/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#trunc/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">trunc(number)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1388" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> trunc(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">number</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the integer part of <code class="inline">number</code>.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="trunc/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#trunc/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">trunc</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-1">(</samp><samp class="mf">5.4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">trunc</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-2">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mf">5.99</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">trunc</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-3">(</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5722439761-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="tuple_size/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#tuple_size/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">tuple_size(tuple)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1407" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> tuple_size(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">tuple</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the size of a tuple.</p><p>This operation happens in constant time.</p><p>Allowed in guard tests. Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="tuple_size/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#tuple_size/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">tuple_size</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6926685374-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6926685374-2">{</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:b</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:c</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6926685374-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6926685374-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>

        </div>
      </section>

      <section id="functions" class="details-list">
        <h1 class="section-heading">Functions</h1>

        <div class="functions-list">
<section class="detail" id="&&/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#&&/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &amp;&amp; right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4238" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Boolean &quot;and&quot; operator.</p><p>Provides a short-circuit operator that evaluates and returns
the second expression only if the first one evaluates to a truthy value
(neither <code class="inline">false</code> nor <code class="inline">nil</code>). Returns the first expression
otherwise.</p><p>Not allowed in guard clauses.</p><h2 id="&&/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#&&/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-4">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-6">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-7">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-8">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-8">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-7">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-9">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-10">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-10">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-9">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">throw</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-11">(</samp><samp class="ss">:bad</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8524279648-11">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre><p>Note that, unlike <a href="#and/2"><code class="inline">and/2</code></a>, this operator accepts any expression
as the first argument, not only booleans.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="**/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#**/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">base ** exponent</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.13.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4455" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() ** <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() ** <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">neg_integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() ** <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() ** <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>() ** <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">integer</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">float</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Power operator.</p><p>It takes two numbers for input. If both are integers and the right-hand
side (the <code class="inline">exponent</code>) is also greater than or equal to 0, then the result
will also be an integer. Otherwise it returns a float.</p><h2 id="**/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#**/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mf">0.0625</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mf">2.0</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mf">4.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mf">2.0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mf">4.0</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="++/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#++/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left ++ right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1589" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> [] ++ a :: a when a: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> [...] ++ <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">maybe_improper_list</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>List concatenation operator. Concatenates a proper list and a term, returning a list.</p><p>The complexity of <code class="inline">a ++ b</code> is proportional to <code class="inline">length(a)</code>, so avoid repeatedly
appending to lists of arbitrary length, for example, <code class="inline">list ++ [element]</code>.
Instead, consider prepending via <code class="inline">[element | rest]</code> and then reversing.</p><p>If the <code class="inline">right</code> operand is not a proper list, it returns an improper list.
If the <code class="inline">left</code> operand is not a proper list, it raises <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a>.
If the <code class="inline">left</code> operand is an empty list, it returns the <code class="inline">right</code> operand.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="++/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#++/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-3">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foobar&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="c1"># a non-list on the right will return an improper list</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1"># with said element at the end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-4">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-5">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-6">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-7">{</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-7">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-8">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-9">{</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-8">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="c1"># improper list on the right will return an improper list</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-10">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-10">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-11">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-11">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-12">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-12">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="c1"># empty list on the left will return the right operand</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-13">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9704007208-13">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre><p>The <a href="#++/2"><code class="inline">++/2</code></a> operator is right associative, meaning:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-2">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-3">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4858567031-4">]</samp></code></pre><p>As it is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-3">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">++</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130894342-5">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="--/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#--/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left -- right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1623" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>() -- <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>List subtraction operator. Removes the first occurrence of an element
on the left list for each element on the right.</p><p>This function is optimized so the complexity of <code class="inline">a -- b</code> is proportional
to <code class="inline">length(a) * log(length(b))</code>. See also the <a href="https://www.erlang.org/doc/system/efficiency_guide.html">Erlang efficiency
guide</a>.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="--/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#--/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-3">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-4">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-5">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1421682518-6">]</samp></code></pre><p>The <a href="#--/2"><code class="inline">--/2</code></a> operator is right associative, meaning:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-2">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-3">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4218664290-4">]</samp></code></pre><p>As it is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-3">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">--</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0039978162-5">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="../0">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#../0" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">..</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.14.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4207" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Creates the full-slice range <code class="inline">0..-1//1</code>.</p><p>This macro returns a range with the following properties:</p><ul><li><p>When enumerated, it is empty</p></li><li><p>When used as a <code class="inline">slice</code>, it returns the sliced element as is</p></li></ul><p>See <a href="#..///3"><code class="inline">..///3</code></a> and the <a href="Range.xhtml"><code class="inline">Range</code></a> module for more information.</p><h2 id="../0-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#../0-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-1">(</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-2">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello world!&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8359945872-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello world!&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="../2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#../2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">first..last</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4047" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Creates a range from <code class="inline">first</code> to <code class="inline">last</code>.</p><p>If first is less than last, the range will be increasing from
first to last. If first is equal to last, the range will contain
one element, which is the number itself.</p><p>If first is more than last, the range will be decreasing from first
to last, albeit this behavior is deprecated. Instead prefer to
explicitly list the step with <code class="inline">first..last//-1</code>.</p><p>See the <a href="Range.xhtml"><code class="inline">Range</code></a> module for more information.</p><h2 id="../2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#../2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1996945390-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1996945390-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1996945390-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1996945390-2">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="..///3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#..///3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">first..last//step</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.12.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4142" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Creates a range from <code class="inline">first</code> to <code class="inline">last</code> with <code class="inline">step</code>.</p><p>See the <a href="Range.xhtml"><code class="inline">Range</code></a> module for more information.</p><h2 id="..///3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#..///3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-3">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-4">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-5">(</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-6">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-7">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-7">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-8">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7623791773-8">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="!/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#!/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">!value</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2003" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Boolean &quot;not&quot; operator.</p><p>Receives any value (not just booleans) and returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">value</code>
is <code class="inline">false</code> or <code class="inline">nil</code>; returns <code class="inline">false</code> otherwise.</p><p>Not allowed in guard clauses.</p><h2 id="!/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#!/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-4">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3455120043-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%3C%3E/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%3C%3E/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left &lt;&gt; right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2053" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Binary concatenation operator. Concatenates two binaries.</p><p>Raises an <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> if one of the sides aren't binaries.</p><h2 id="%3C%3E/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%3C%3E/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foobar&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>The <a href="#%3C%3E/2"><code class="inline">&lt;&gt;/2</code></a> operator can also be used in pattern matching (and guard clauses) as
long as the left argument is a literal binary:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foobar&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp></code></pre><p><code class="inline">x &lt;&gt; &quot;bar&quot; = &quot;foobar&quot;</code> would result in an <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> exception.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="=~/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#=~/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left =~ right</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2301" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> <a href="String.xhtml#t:t/0">String.t</a>() =~ (<a href="String.xhtml#t:t/0">String.t</a>() | <a href="Regex.xhtml#t:t/0">Regex.t</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Text-based match operator. Matches the term on the <code class="inline">left</code>
against the regular expression or string on the <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><p>If <code class="inline">right</code> is a regular expression, returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> matches right.</p><p>If <code class="inline">right</code> is a string, returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">left</code> contains <code class="inline">right</code>.</p><h2 id="=~/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#=~/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sr">~r/c(d)/</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sr">~r/e/</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sr">~r//</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bc&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;ad&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abcd&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=~</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>For more information about regular expressions, please check the <a href="Regex.xhtml"><code class="inline">Regex</code></a> module.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="@/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#@/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">@expr</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3609" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Module attribute unary operator.</p><p>Reads and writes attributes in the current module.</p><p>The canonical example for attributes is annotating that a module
implements an OTP behaviour, such as <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyServer</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6810840835-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@behaviour</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">GenServer</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># ... callbacks ...</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6810840835-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>By default Elixir supports all the module attributes supported by Erlang, but
custom attributes can be used as well:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyServer</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3898492749-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">13</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3898492749-2">(</samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3898492749-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 13</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3898492749-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Unlike Erlang, such attributes are not stored in the module by default since
it is common in Elixir to use custom attributes to store temporary data that
will be available at compile-time. Custom attributes may be configured to
behave closer to Erlang by using <a href="Module.xhtml#register_attribute/3"><code class="inline">Module.register_attribute/3</code></a>.</p><section role="note" class="admonition tip"><h4 class="admonition-title tip">Prefixing module attributes</h4><p>Libraries and frameworks should consider prefixing any
module attributes that are private by underscore, such as <code class="inline">@_my_data</code>,
so code completion tools do not show them on suggestions and prompts.</p></section><p>Finally, note that attributes can also be read inside functions:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyServer</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2104842024-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">11</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">first_data</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">13</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">second_data</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="na">@my_data</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2104842024-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyServer</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first_data</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2104842024-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2104842024-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 11</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyServer</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">second_data</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2104842024-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2104842024-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 13</samp></code></pre><p>It is important to note that reading an attribute takes a snapshot of
its current value. In other words, the value is read at compilation
time and not at runtime. Check the <a href="Module.xhtml"><code class="inline">Module</code></a> module for other functions
to manipulate module attributes.</p><h2 id="@/1-attention-multiple-references-of-the-same-attribute" class="section-heading"><a href="#@/1-attention-multiple-references-of-the-same-attribute" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Attention! Multiple references of the same attribute</span></h2><p>As mentioned above, every time you read a module attribute, a snapshot
of its current value is taken. Therefore, if you are storing large
values inside module attributes (for example, embedding external files
in module attributes), you should avoid referencing the same attribute
multiple times. For example, don't do this:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="na">@files</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-1">%{</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="ss">example1</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">File</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">read!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lib/example1.data&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="ss">example2</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">File</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">read!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lib/example2.data&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-1">}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">example1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="na">@files</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-4">[</samp><samp class="ss">:example1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-4">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">example2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="na">@files</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-5">[</samp><samp class="ss">:example2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8958034983-5">]</samp></code></pre><p>In the above, each reference to <code class="inline">@files</code> may end-up with a complete
and individual copy of the whole <code class="inline">@files</code> module attribute. Instead,
reference the module attribute once in a private function:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="na">@files</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-1">%{</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="ss">example1</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">File</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">read!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lib/example1.data&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="ss">example2</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">File</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">read!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lib/example2.data&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-1">}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defp</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">files</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-4">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="na">@files</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">example1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">files</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-5">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:example1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-6">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">example2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">files</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-7">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-7">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-8">[</samp><samp class="ss">:example2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1041569079-8">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="alias!/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#alias!/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">alias!(alias)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4768" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>When used inside quoting, marks that the given alias should not
be hygienized. This means the alias will be expanded when
the macro is expanded.</p><p>Check <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#quote/2"><code class="inline">quote/2</code></a> for more information.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="apply/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#apply/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">apply(fun, args)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L348" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> apply(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">fun</a>(), [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>()]) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Invokes the given anonymous function <code class="inline">fun</code> with the list of
arguments <code class="inline">args</code>.</p><p>If the number of arguments is known at compile time, prefer
<code class="inline">fun.(arg_1, arg_2, ..., arg_n)</code> as it is clearer than
<code class="inline">apply(fun, [arg_1, arg_2, ..., arg_n])</code>.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="apply/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#apply/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">apply</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1370413976-1">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1370413976-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1370413976-2">end</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1370413976-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1370413976-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1370413976-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="apply/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#apply/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">apply(module, function_name, args)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L375" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> apply(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), function_name :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>()]) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Invokes the given function from <code class="inline">module</code> with the list of
arguments <code class="inline">args</code>.</p><p><a href="#apply/3"><code class="inline">apply/3</code></a> is used to invoke functions where the module, function
name or arguments are defined dynamically at runtime. For this
reason, you can't invoke macros using <a href="#apply/3"><code class="inline">apply/3</code></a>, only functions.</p><p>If the number of arguments and the function name are known at compile time,
prefer <code class="inline">module.function(arg_1, arg_2, ..., arg_n)</code> as it is clearer than
<code class="inline">apply(module, :function, [arg_1, arg_2, ..., arg_n])</code>.</p><p><a href="#apply/3"><code class="inline">apply/3</code></a> cannot be used to call private functions.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="apply/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#apply/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">apply</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:reverse</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-2">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0797263340-4">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="binary_slice/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#binary_slice/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">binary_slice(binary, range)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.14.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4894" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns a binary from the offset given by the start of the
range to the offset given by the end of the range.</p><p>If the start or end of the range are negative, they are converted
into positive indices based on the binary size. For example,
<code class="inline">-1</code> means the last byte of the binary.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#binary_part/3"><code class="inline">binary_part/3</code></a> except that it works with ranges
and it is not allowed in guards.</p><p>This function works with bytes. For a slicing operation that
considers characters, see <a href="String.xhtml#slice/2"><code class="inline">String.slice/2</code></a>.</p><h2 id="binary_slice/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#binary_slice/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lix&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-4">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;ixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-5">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;ixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-6">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5119505994-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>For ranges where <code class="inline">start &gt; stop</code>, you need to explicitly
mark them as increasing:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5246370860-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5246370860-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;ixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5246370860-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5246370860-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lixi&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>You can use <a href="#../0"><code class="inline">../0</code></a> as a shortcut for <code class="inline">0..-1//1</code>, which returns
the whole binary as is:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9097383499-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9097383499-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>The step can be any positive number. For example, to
get every 2 characters of the binary:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0997034735-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0997034735-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;eii&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>If the first position is after the string ends or after
the last position of the range, it returns an empty string:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="o">//</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">7</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;a&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="o">..</samp><samp class="mi">1500</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5151413137-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="binary_slice/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#binary_slice/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">binary_slice(binary, start, size)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.14.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4821" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns a binary starting at the offset <code class="inline">start</code> and of the given <code class="inline">size</code>.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#binary_part/3"><code class="inline">binary_part/3</code></a> except that if <code class="inline">start + size</code>
is greater than the binary size, it automatically clips it to
the binary size instead of raising. Opposite to <a href="#binary_part/3"><code class="inline">binary_part/3</code></a>,
this function is not allowed in guards.</p><p>This function works with bytes. For a slicing operation that
considers characters, see <a href="String.xhtml#slice/3"><code class="inline">String.slice/3</code></a>.</p><h2 id="binary_slice/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#binary_slice/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixi&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;lixi&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-4">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5935250007-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>If <code class="inline">start</code> is negative, it is normalized against the binary
size and clamped to 0:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8262361389-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8262361389-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;xir&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8262361389-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8262361389-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>If the <code class="inline">size</code> is zero, an empty binary is returned:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7850615348-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7850615348-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>If <code class="inline">start</code> is greater than or equal to the binary size,
an empty binary is returned:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binary_slice</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6818706292-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;elixir&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6818706292-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="binding/1">

    <span id="binding/0"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#binding/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">binding(context \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3848" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Returns the binding for the given context as a keyword list.</p><p>In the returned result, keys are variable names and values are the
corresponding variable values.</p><p>If the given <code class="inline">context</code> is <code class="inline">nil</code> (by default it is), the binding for the
current context is returned.</p><h2 id="binding/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#binding/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binding</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binding</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-4">[</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-4">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binding</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-5">(</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-6">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-6">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">var!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-7">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-7">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binding</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-8">(</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-9">[</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6052686561-9">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="dbg/2">

    <span id="dbg/0"></span>

    <span id="dbg/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#dbg/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">dbg(code \\ quote do
  binding()
end, options \\ [])</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.14.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6148" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Debugs the given <code class="inline">code</code>.</p><p><a href="#dbg/2"><code class="inline">dbg/2</code></a> can be used to debug the given <code class="inline">code</code> through a configurable debug function.
It returns the result of the given code.</p><h2 id="dbg/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#dbg/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><p>Let's take this call to <a href="#dbg/2"><code class="inline">dbg/2</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">dbg</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0131526352-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">Atom</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_string</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0131526352-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">:debugging</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0131526352-2">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0131526352-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;debugging&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>It returns the string <code class="inline">&quot;debugging&quot;</code>, which is the result of the <a href="Atom.xhtml#to_string/1"><code class="inline">Atom.to_string/1</code></a> call.
Additionally, the call above prints:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="5192109979-1">[</samp><samp class="n">my_file</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">ex</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyMod</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">my_fun</samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5192109979-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="nc">Atom</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_string</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5192109979-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">:debugging</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5192109979-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;debugging&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>The default debugging function prints additional debugging info when dealing with
pipelines. It prints the values at every &quot;step&quot; of the pipeline.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="s">&quot;Elixir is cool!&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">trim_trailing</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;!&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">split</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">dbg</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7191965777-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;Elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>The code above prints:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-1">[</samp><samp class="n">my_file</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">ex</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyMod</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">my_fun</samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Elixir is cool!&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;Elixir is cool!&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">trim_trailing</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;!&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;Elixir is cool&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">split</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; [&quot;Elixir&quot;, &quot;is&quot;, &quot;cool&quot;]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1637546261-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; &quot;Elixir&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>With no arguments, <code class="inline">dbg()</code> debugs information about the current binding. See <a href="#binding/1"><code class="inline">binding/1</code></a>.</p><h2 id="dbg/2-dbg-inside-iex" class="section-heading"><a href="#dbg/2-dbg-inside-iex" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text"><code class="inline">dbg</code> inside IEx</span></h2><p>You can enable IEx to replace <code class="inline">dbg</code> with its <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/iex/IEx.html#pry/0"><code class="inline">IEx.pry/0</code></a> backend by calling:</p><pre><code class="makeup shell" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">$ </samp><samp class="">iex --dbg pry
</samp></code></pre><p>In such cases, <code class="inline">dbg</code> will start a <code class="inline">pry</code> session where you can interact with
the imports, aliases, and variables of the current environment at the location
of the <code class="inline">dbg</code> call.</p><p>If you call <code class="inline">dbg</code> at the end of a pipeline (using <code class="inline">|&gt;</code>) within IEx, you are able
to go through each step of the pipeline one by one by entering &quot;next&quot; (or &quot;n&quot;).</p><p>Note <code class="inline">dbg</code> only supports stepping for pipelines (in other words, it can only
step through the code it sees). For general stepping, you can set breakpoints
using <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/iex/IEx.html#break!/4"><code class="inline">IEx.break!/4</code></a>.</p><p>For more information, <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/iex/IEx.html#module-dbg-and-breakpoints">see IEx documentation</a>.</p><h2 id="dbg/2-configuring-the-debug-function" class="section-heading"><a href="#dbg/2-configuring-the-debug-function" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Configuring the debug function</span></h2><p>One of the benefits of <a href="#dbg/2"><code class="inline">dbg/2</code></a> is that its debugging logic is configurable,
allowing tools to extend <code class="inline">dbg</code> with enhanced behaviour. This is done, for
example, by <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/iex/IEx.html"><code class="inline">IEx</code></a> which extends <code class="inline">dbg</code> with an interactive shell where you
can directly inspect and access values.</p><p>The debug function can be configured at compile time through the <code class="inline">:dbg_callback</code>
key of the <code class="inline">:elixir</code> application. The debug function must be a
<code class="inline">{module, function, args}</code> tuple. The <code class="inline">function</code> function in <code class="inline">module</code> will be
invoked with three arguments <em>prepended</em> to <code class="inline">args</code>:</p><ol><li>The AST of <code class="inline">code</code></li><li>The AST of <code class="inline">options</code></li><li>The <a href="Macro.Env.xhtml"><code class="inline">Macro.Env</code></a> environment of where <a href="#dbg/2"><code class="inline">dbg/2</code></a> is invoked</li></ol><p>The debug function is invoked at compile time and it must also return an AST.
The AST is expected to ultimately return the result of evaluating the debugged
expression.</p><p>Here's a simple example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyMod</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">debug_fun</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-2">(</samp><samp class="n">code</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">options</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">caller</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">device</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="n">result</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">unquote</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-5">(</samp><samp class="n">code</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-6">(</samp><samp class="k">unquote</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-7">(</samp><samp class="n">device</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-7">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">result</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">label</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">unquote</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-8">(</samp><samp class="nc">Macro</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_string</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-9">(</samp><samp class="n">code</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-9">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-8">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0659716154-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0659716154-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>To configure the debug function:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="c1"># In config/config.exs</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">config</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:elixir</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:dbg_callback</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4421827133-1">{</samp><samp class="nc">MyMod</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:debug_fun</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4421827133-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:stdio</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4421827133-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4421827133-1">}</samp></code></pre><h3 id="dbg/2-default-debug-function" class="section-heading"><a href="#dbg/2-default-debug-function" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Default debug function</span></h3><p>By default, the debug function we use is <a href="Macro.xhtml#dbg/3"><code class="inline">Macro.dbg/3</code></a>. It just prints
information about the code to standard output and returns the value
returned by evaluating <code class="inline">code</code>. <code class="inline">options</code> are used to control how terms
are inspected. They are the same options accepted by <a href="#inspect/2"><code class="inline">inspect/2</code></a>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="def/2">

    <span id="def/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#def/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">def(call, expr \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5235" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a public function with the given name and body.</p><h2 id="def/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#def/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0915375861-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0915375861-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0915375861-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0915375861-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; :baz</samp></code></pre><p>A function that expects arguments can be defined as follows:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7224691105-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">sum</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7224691105-2">(</samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7224691105-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7224691105-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7224691105-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7224691105-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>In the example above, a <code class="inline">sum/2</code> function is defined; this function receives
two arguments and returns their sum.</p><h2 id="def/2-default-arguments" class="section-heading"><a href="#def/2-default-arguments" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Default arguments</span></h2><p><code class="inline">\\</code> is used to specify a default value for a parameter of a function. For
example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyMath</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3620570932-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">multiply_by</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-2">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">factor</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">\\</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3620570932-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">factor</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3620570932-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3620570932-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyMath</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">multiply_by</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-4">(</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 12</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyMath</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">multiply_by</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-5">(</samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3620570932-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 8</samp></code></pre><p>The compiler translates this into multiple functions with different arities,
here <code class="inline">MyMath.multiply_by/1</code> and <code class="inline">MyMath.multiply_by/2</code>, that represent cases when
arguments for parameters with default values are passed or not passed.</p><p>When defining a function with default arguments as well as multiple
explicitly declared clauses, you must write a function head that declares the
defaults. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyString</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">join</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-2">(</samp><samp class="n">string1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">string2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">\\</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">separator</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">\\</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot; &quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-2">)</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">join</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-3">(</samp><samp class="n">string1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c">_separator</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">string1</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-4">end</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">join</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-5">(</samp><samp class="n">string1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">string2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">separator</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1658301725-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-6">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">string1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">separator</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">string2</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-6">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1658301725-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Note that <code class="inline">\\</code> can't be used with anonymous functions because they
can only have a sole arity.</p><h3 id="def/2-keyword-lists-with-default-arguments" class="section-heading"><a href="#def/2-keyword-lists-with-default-arguments" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Keyword lists with default arguments</span></h3><p>Functions containing many arguments can benefit from using <a href="Keyword.xhtml"><code class="inline">Keyword</code></a>
lists to group and pass attributes as a single value.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyConfiguration</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3384020219-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@default_opts</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">storage</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;local&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-2">]</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">configure</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-3">(</samp><samp class="n">resource</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">\\</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-4">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3384020219-5">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Keyword</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">merge</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-6">(</samp><samp class="na">@default_opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">storage</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-7">[</samp><samp class="ss">:storage</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3384020219-7">]</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="c1"># ...</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3384020219-5">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3384020219-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>The difference between using <a href="Map.xhtml"><code class="inline">Map</code></a> and <a href="Keyword.xhtml"><code class="inline">Keyword</code></a> to store many
arguments is <a href="Keyword.xhtml"><code class="inline">Keyword</code></a>'s keys:</p><ul><li>must be atoms</li><li>can be given more than once</li><li>ordered, as specified by the developer</li></ul><h2 id="def/2-function-names" class="section-heading"><a href="#def/2-function-names" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Function names</span></h2><p>Function and variable names in Elixir must start with an underscore or a
Unicode letter that is not in uppercase or titlecase. They may continue
using a sequence of Unicode letters, numbers, and underscores. They may
end in <code class="inline">?</code> or <code class="inline">!</code>. Elixir's <a href="naming-conventions.xhtml">Naming Conventions</a>
suggest for function and variable names to be written in the <code class="inline">snake_case</code>
format.</p><h2 id="def/2-rescue-catch-after-else" class="section-heading"><a href="#def/2-rescue-catch-after-else" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text"><code class="inline">rescue</code>/<code class="inline">catch</code>/<code class="inline">after</code>/<code class="inline">else</code></span></h2><p>Function bodies support <code class="inline">rescue</code>, <code class="inline">catch</code>, <code class="inline">after</code>, and <code class="inline">else</code> as <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#try/1"><code class="inline">try/1</code></a>
does (known as &quot;implicit try&quot;). For example, the following two functions are equivalent:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">convert</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-1">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-2">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k">try</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_integer</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-4">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-3">rescue</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">e</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ArgumentError</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-5">{</samp><samp class="ss">:error</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">e</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">message</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-5">}</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-2">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">convert</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-6">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-6">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-7">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">to_integer</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-8">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-7">rescue</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">e</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ArgumentError</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-9">{</samp><samp class="ss">:error</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">e</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">message</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2791341471-9">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2791341471-7">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defdelegate/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defdelegate/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defdelegate(funs, opts)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6025" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a function that delegates to another module.</p><p>Functions defined with <a href="#defdelegate/2"><code class="inline">defdelegate/2</code></a> are public and can be invoked from
outside the module they're defined in, as if they were defined using <a href="#def/2"><code class="inline">def/2</code></a>.
Therefore, <a href="#defdelegate/2"><code class="inline">defdelegate/2</code></a> is about extending the current module's public API.
If what you want is to invoke a function defined in another module without
using its full module name, then use <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#alias/2"><code class="inline">alias/2</code></a> to shorten the module name or use
<a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#import/2"><code class="inline">import/2</code></a> to be able to invoke the function without the module name altogether.</p><p>Delegation only works with functions; delegating macros is not supported.</p><p>Check <a href="#def/2"><code class="inline">def/2</code></a> for rules on naming and default arguments.</p><h2 id="defdelegate/2-options" class="section-heading"><a href="#defdelegate/2-options" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Options</span></h2><ul><li><p><code class="inline">:to</code> - the module to dispatch to.</p></li><li><p><code class="inline">:as</code> - the function to call on the target given in <code class="inline">:to</code>.
This parameter is optional and defaults to the name being
delegated (<code class="inline">funs</code>).</p></li></ul><h2 id="defdelegate/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#defdelegate/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyList</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3147745747-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defdelegate</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-2">(</samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">to</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defdelegate</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">other_reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-3">(</samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-3">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">to</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">as</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:reverse</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3147745747-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyList</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; [3, 2, 1]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyList</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">other_reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-7">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-7">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3147745747-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; [3, 2, 1]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defexception/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defexception/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defexception(fields)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5545" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines an exception.</p><p>Exceptions are structs backed by a module that implements
the <a href="Exception.xhtml"><code class="inline">Exception</code></a> behaviour. The <a href="Exception.xhtml"><code class="inline">Exception</code></a> behaviour requires
two functions to be implemented:</p><ul><li><p><a href="Exception.xhtml#c:exception/1"><code class="inline">exception/1</code></a> - receives the arguments given to <a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a>
and returns the exception struct. The default implementation
accepts either a set of keyword arguments that is merged into
the struct or a string to be used as the exception's message.</p></li><li><p><a href="Exception.xhtml#c:message/1"><code class="inline">message/1</code></a> - receives the exception struct and must return its
message. Most commonly exceptions have a message field which
by default is accessed by this function. However, if an exception
does not have a message field, this function must be explicitly
implemented.</p></li></ul><p>Since exceptions are structs, the API supported by <a href="#defstruct/1"><code class="inline">defstruct/1</code></a>
is also available in <a href="#defexception/1"><code class="inline">defexception/1</code></a>.</p><h2 id="defexception/1-raising-exceptions" class="section-heading"><a href="#defexception/1-raising-exceptions" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Raising exceptions</span></h2><p>The most common way to raise an exception is via <a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyAppError</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5970623656-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defexception</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:message</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5970623656-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:hello</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-3">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyAppError</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="ss">message</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;did not get what was expected, got: </samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5970623656-4">#{</samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-5">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5970623656-5">)</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5970623656-4">}</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>In many cases it is more convenient to pass the expected value to
<a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a> and generate the message in the <a href="Exception.xhtml#c:exception/1"><code class="inline">Exception.exception/1</code></a> callback:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyAppError</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0219610699-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defexception</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:message</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-2">]</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="na">@impl</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-3">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0219610699-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">msg</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;did not get what was expected, got: </samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="0219610699-5">#{</samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-6">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-6">)</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="0219610699-5">}</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-7">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="0219610699-7">MyAppError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-7">{</samp><samp class="ss">message</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">msg</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0219610699-7">}</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0219610699-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="0219610699-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyAppError</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">value</samp></code></pre><p>The example above shows the preferred strategy for customizing
exception messages.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defguard/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defguard/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defguard(guard)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.6.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5738" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> defguard(<a href="Macro.xhtml#t:t/0">Macro.t</a>()) :: <a href="Macro.xhtml#t:t/0">Macro.t</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Defines a macro suitable for use in guard expressions.</p><p>It raises at compile time if the <code class="inline">guard</code> uses expressions that aren't
allowed in <a href="patterns-and-guards.html#guards">guard clauses</a>,
and otherwise creates a macro that can be used both inside or outside guards.</p><p>When defining your own guards, consider the
<a href="naming-conventions.html#is_-prefix-is_foo">naming conventions</a>
around boolean-returning guards.</p><h2 id="defguard/1-example" class="section-heading"><a href="#defguard/1-example" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Example</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Integer.Guards</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defguard</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">is_even</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-2">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">is_integer</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-3">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">rem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-4">(</samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Collatz</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-5">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@moduledoc</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Tools for working with the Collatz sequence.&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Integer.Guards</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="na">@doc</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Determines the number of steps `n` takes to reach `1`.&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># If this function never converges, please let me know what `n` you used.</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">converge</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-6">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-6">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-7">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-7">)</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">defp</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-8">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-8">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-9">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-9">end</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">defp</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-10">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-10">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">is_even</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-11">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-11">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-12">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-13">(</samp><samp class="n">div</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-14">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-14">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-13">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-12">end</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">defp</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-15">(</samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-15">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-16">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">step</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-17">(</samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">n</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">step_count</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3957854428-17">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-16">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3957854428-5">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defguardp/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defguardp/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defguardp(guard)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.6.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5759" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> defguardp(<a href="Macro.xhtml#t:t/0">Macro.t</a>()) :: <a href="Macro.xhtml#t:t/0">Macro.t</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Defines a private macro suitable for use in guard expressions.</p><p>It raises at compile time if the <code class="inline">guard</code> uses expressions that aren't
allowed in <a href="patterns-and-guards.html#guards">guard clauses</a>,
and otherwise creates a private macro that can be used
both inside or outside guards in the current module.</p><p>When defining your own guards, consider the
<a href="naming-conventions.html#is_-prefix-is_foo">naming conventions</a>
around boolean-returning guards.</p><p>Similar to <a href="#defmacrop/2"><code class="inline">defmacrop/2</code></a>, <a href="#defguardp/1"><code class="inline">defguardp/1</code></a> must be defined before its use
in the current module.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defimpl/3">

    <span id="defimpl/2"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defimpl/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defimpl(name, opts, do_block \\ [])</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5596" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines an implementation for the given protocol.</p><p>See the <a href="Protocol.xhtml"><code class="inline">Protocol</code></a> module for more information.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defmacro/2">

    <span id="defmacro/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defmacro/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defmacro(call, expr \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5295" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a public macro with the given name and body.</p><p>Macros must be defined before its usage.</p><p>Check <a href="#def/2"><code class="inline">def/2</code></a> for rules on naming and default arguments.</p><h2 id="defmacro/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmacro/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyLogic</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">unless</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-2">(</samp><samp class="n">expr</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">!</samp><samp class="k">unquote</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-5">(</samp><samp class="n">expr</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-5">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">unquote</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-6">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kn">require</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyLogic</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyLogic</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="k">unless</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-7">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">puts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-8">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;It works&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4217674221-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4217674221-7">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defmacrop/2">

    <span id="defmacrop/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defmacrop/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defmacrop(call, expr \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5312" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a private macro with the given name and body.</p><p>Private macros are only accessible from the same module in which they are
defined.</p><p>Private macros must be defined before its usage.</p><p>Check <a href="#defmacro/2"><code class="inline">defmacro/2</code></a> for more information, and check <a href="#def/2"><code class="inline">def/2</code></a> for rules on
naming and default arguments.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defmodule/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defmodule/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defmodule(alias, do_block)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5019" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a module given by name with the given contents.</p><p>This macro defines a module with the given <code class="inline">alias</code> as its name and with the
given contents. It returns a tuple with four elements:</p><ul><li><code class="inline">:module</code></li><li>the module name</li><li>the binary contents of the module</li><li>the result of evaluating the contents block</li></ul><h2 id="defmodule/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmodule/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Number</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6381212784-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">one</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">two</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6381212784-1">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; {:module, Number, &lt;&lt;70, 79, 82, ...&gt;&gt;, {:two, 0}}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">Number</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">one</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6381212784-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6381212784-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 1</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">Number</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">two</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6381212784-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6381212784-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 2</samp></code></pre><h2 id="defmodule/2-module-names-and-aliases" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmodule/2-module-names-and-aliases" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Module names and aliases</span></h2><p>Module names (and aliases) must start with an ASCII uppercase character which
may be followed by any ASCII letter, number, or underscore. Elixir's
<a href="naming-conventions.xhtml">Naming Conventions</a> suggest for module names and aliases
to be written in the <code class="inline">CamelCase</code> format.</p><p>You can also use atoms as the module name, although they must only contain ASCII
characters.</p><h2 id="defmodule/2-nesting" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmodule/2-nesting" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Nesting</span></h2><p>Nesting a module inside another module affects the name of the nested module:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3569776560-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Bar</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3569776560-2">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3569776560-2">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3569776560-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>In the example above, two modules - <code class="inline">Foo</code> and <code class="inline">Foo.Bar</code> - are created.
When nesting, Elixir automatically creates an alias to the inner module,
allowing the second module <code class="inline">Foo.Bar</code> to be accessed as <code class="inline">Bar</code> in the same
lexical scope where it's defined (the <code class="inline">Foo</code> module). This only happens
if the nested module is defined via an alias.</p><p>If the <code class="inline">Foo.Bar</code> module is moved somewhere else, the references to <code class="inline">Bar</code> in
the <code class="inline">Foo</code> module need to be updated to the fully-qualified name (<code class="inline">Foo.Bar</code>) or
an alias has to be explicitly set in the <code class="inline">Foo</code> module with the help of
<a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#alias/2"><code class="inline">alias/2</code></a>.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo.Bar</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6096895366-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># code</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6096895366-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6096895366-2">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">alias</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo.Bar</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># code here can refer to &quot;Foo.Bar&quot; as just &quot;Bar&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6096895366-2">end</samp></code></pre><h2 id="defmodule/2-dynamic-names" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmodule/2-dynamic-names" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Dynamic names</span></h2><p>Elixir module names can be dynamically generated. This is very
useful when working with macros. For instance, one could write:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Module</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">concat</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5560753662-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5560753662-2">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5560753662-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5560753662-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5560753662-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># contents ...</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5560753662-3">end</samp></code></pre><p>Elixir will accept any module name as long as the expression passed as the
first argument to <a href="#defmodule/2"><code class="inline">defmodule/2</code></a> evaluates to an atom.
Note that, when a dynamic name is used, Elixir won't nest the name under
the current module nor automatically set up an alias.</p><h2 id="defmodule/2-reserved-module-names" class="section-heading"><a href="#defmodule/2-reserved-module-names" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Reserved module names</span></h2><p>If you attempt to define a module that already exists, you will get a
warning saying that a module has been redefined.</p><p>There are some modules that Elixir does not currently implement but it
may be implement in the future. Those modules are reserved and defining
them will result in a compilation error:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Any</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4229637028-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="c1"># code</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4229637028-1">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (CompileError) iex:1: module Any is reserved and cannot be defined</samp></code></pre><p>Elixir reserves the following module names: <code class="inline">Elixir</code>, <code class="inline">Any</code>, <code class="inline">BitString</code>,
<code class="inline">PID</code>, and <code class="inline">Reference</code>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defoverridable/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defoverridable/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defoverridable(keywords_or_behaviour)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5691" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Makes the given definitions in the current module overridable.</p><p>If the user defines a new function or macro with the same name
and arity, then the overridable ones are discarded. Otherwise, the
original definitions are used.</p><p>It is possible for the overridden definition to have a different visibility
than the original: a public function can be overridden by a private
function and vice-versa.</p><p>Macros cannot be overridden as functions and vice-versa.</p><h2 id="defoverridable/1-example" class="section-heading"><a href="#defoverridable/1-example" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Example</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">DefaultMod</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-2">(</samp><samp class="c">_opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-5">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-6">do</samp><samp class="w">
        </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-6">end</samp><samp class="w">

      </samp><samp class="n">defoverridable</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">test</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ChildMod</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-7">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">use</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">DefaultMod</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-8">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-8">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-9">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">super</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-10">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9125099017-10">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-9">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9125099017-7">end</samp></code></pre><p>As seen as in the example above, <code class="inline">super</code> can be used to call the default
implementation.</p><section role="note" class="admonition tip"><h4 class="admonition-title tip">Disclaimer</h4><p>Use <code class="inline">defoverridable</code> with care. If you need to define multiple modules
with the same behaviour, it may be best to move the default implementation
to the caller, and check if a callback exists via <a href="Code.xhtml#ensure_loaded?/1"><code class="inline">Code.ensure_loaded?/1</code></a> and
<a href="#function_exported?/3"><code class="inline">function_exported?/3</code></a>.</p><p>For example, in the example above, imagine there is a module that calls the
<code class="inline">test/2</code> function. This module could be defined as such:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">CallsTest</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">receives_module_and_calls_test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-2">(</samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Code</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">ensure_loaded?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-4">(</samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">function_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-5">(</samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:test</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-6">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-7">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5833140661-7">)</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-6">else</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-6">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5833140661-1">end</samp></code></pre></section><h2 id="defoverridable/1-example-with-behaviour" class="section-heading"><a href="#defoverridable/1-example-with-behaviour" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Example with behaviour</span></h2><p>You can also pass a behaviour to <code class="inline">defoverridable</code> and it will mark all of the
callbacks in the behaviour as overridable:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Behaviour</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@callback</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-2">(</samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-3">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-4">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">number</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">DefaultMod</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-6">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-7">(</samp><samp class="c">_opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-7">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-8">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-9">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="na">@behaviour</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Behaviour</samp><samp class="w">

      </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-10">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-10">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-11">do</samp><samp class="w">
        </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-11">end</samp><samp class="w">

      </samp><samp class="n">defoverridable</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Behaviour</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-9">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-8">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-6">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ChildMod</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-12">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">use</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">DefaultMod</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">test</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-13">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-13">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-14">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">super</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-15">(</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9258368276-15">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-14">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9258368276-12">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defp/2">

    <span id="defp/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defp/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defp(call, expr \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5266" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a private function with the given name and body.</p><p>Private functions are only accessible from within the module in which they are
defined. Trying to access a private function from outside the module it's
defined in results in an <a href="UndefinedFunctionError.xhtml"><code class="inline">UndefinedFunctionError</code></a> exception.</p><p>Check <a href="#def/2"><code class="inline">def/2</code></a> for more information.</p><h2 id="defp/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#defp/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3949761427-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">def</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">bar</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3949761427-2">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">sum</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-3">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3949761427-2">end</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="kd">defp</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">sum</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-4">(</samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-4">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3949761427-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; 3</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">Foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">sum</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-6">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3949761427-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (UndefinedFunctionError) undefined function Foo.sum/2</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defprotocol/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defprotocol/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defprotocol(name, do_block)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5585" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a protocol.</p><p>See the <a href="Protocol.xhtml"><code class="inline">Protocol</code></a> module for more information.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="defstruct/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#defstruct/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">defstruct(fields)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5475" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Defines a struct.</p><p>A struct is a tagged map that allows developers to provide
default values for keys, tags to be used in polymorphic
dispatches and compile time assertions.</p><p>It is only possible to define a struct per module, as the
struct is tied to the module itself.</p><h2 id="defstruct/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#defstruct/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9606543134-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9606543134-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Struct fields are evaluated at compile-time, which allows
them to be dynamic. In the example below, <code class="inline">10 + 11</code> is
evaluated at compile-time and the age field is stored
with value <code class="inline">21</code>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2404610833-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">11</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2404610833-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>The <code class="inline">fields</code> argument is usually a keyword list with field names
as atom keys and default values as corresponding values. <a href="#defstruct/1"><code class="inline">defstruct/1</code></a>
also supports a list of atoms as its argument: in that case, the atoms
in the list will be used as the struct's field names and they will all
default to <code class="inline">nil</code>.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Post</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6350789833-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6350789833-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:title</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:content</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:author</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6350789833-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6350789833-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Add documentation to a struct with the <code class="inline">@doc</code> attribute, like a function.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Post</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1561666173-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@doc</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;A post. The content should be valid Markdown.&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1561666173-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:title</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:content</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:author</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1561666173-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1561666173-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Once a struct is defined, it is possible to create them as follows:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="0058742053-1">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="0058742053-1">Post</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0058742053-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">title</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello world!&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0058742053-1">}</samp></code></pre><p>For more information on creating, updating, and pattern matching on
structs, please check <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#%25/2"><code class="inline">%/2</code></a>.</p><h2 id="defstruct/1-deriving" class="section-heading"><a href="#defstruct/1-deriving" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Deriving</span></h2><p>Although structs are maps, by default structs do not implement
any of the protocols implemented for maps. For example, attempting
to use a protocol with the <code class="inline">User</code> struct leads to an error:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">john</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3049793924-1">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="3049793924-1">User</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3049793924-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;John&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3049793924-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="nc">MyProtocol</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">call</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3049793924-2">(</samp><samp class="n">john</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3049793924-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (Protocol.UndefinedError) protocol MyProtocol not implemented for %User{...}</samp></code></pre><p><a href="#defstruct/1"><code class="inline">defstruct/1</code></a>, however, allows protocol implementations to be
<em>derived</em>. This can be done by defining a <code class="inline">@derive</code> attribute as a
list before invoking <a href="#defstruct/1"><code class="inline">defstruct/1</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9680630594-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@derive</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyProtocol</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9680630594-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="nc">MyProtocol</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">call</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9680630594-2">(</samp><samp class="n">john</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9680630594-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1"># it works!</samp></code></pre><p>A common example is to <code class="inline">@derive</code> the <a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> protocol to hide certain fields
when the struct is printed:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5292392929-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@derive</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5292392929-2">{</samp><samp class="nc">Inspect</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">only</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:name</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5292392929-2">}</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5292392929-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>For each protocol in <code class="inline">@derive</code>, Elixir will verify if the protocol
has implemented the <a href="Protocol.xhtml#c:__deriving__/2"><code class="inline">Protocol.__deriving__/2</code></a> callback. If so,
the callback will be invoked and it should define the implementation
module. Otherwise an implementation that simply points to the <code class="inline">Any</code>
implementation is automatically derived. For more information, see
<a href="Protocol.xhtml#derive/3"><code class="inline">Protocol.derive/3</code></a>.</p><h2 id="defstruct/1-enforcing-keys" class="section-heading"><a href="#defstruct/1-enforcing-keys" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Enforcing keys</span></h2><p>When building a struct, Elixir will automatically guarantee all keys
belong to the struct:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="0908843368-1">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="0908843368-1">User</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0908843368-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">unknown</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:key</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0908843368-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (KeyError) key :unknown not found in: %User{age: 21, name: nil}</samp></code></pre><p>Elixir also allows developers to enforce that certain keys must always be
given when building the struct:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9529489085-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@enforce_keys</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9529489085-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:name</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9529489085-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">11</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9529489085-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Now trying to build a struct without the name key will fail:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="4957809405-1">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="4957809405-1">User</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4957809405-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">21</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4957809405-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) the following keys must also be given when building struct User: [:name]</samp></code></pre><p>Keep in mind <code class="inline">@enforce_keys</code> is a simple compile-time guarantee
to aid developers when building structs. It is not enforced on
updates and it does not provide any sort of value-validation.</p><h2 id="defstruct/1-types" class="section-heading"><a href="#defstruct/1-types" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Types</span></h2><p>It is recommended to define types for structs. By convention, such a type
is called <code class="inline">t</code>. To define a struct inside a type, the struct literal syntax
is used:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4178748866-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;John&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">25</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="na">@type</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">t</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">::</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">%</samp><samp class="bp">__MODULE__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4178748866-2">{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">t</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4178748866-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4178748866-3">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">non_neg_integer</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4178748866-2">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4178748866-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>It is recommended to only use the struct syntax when defining the struct's
type. When referring to another struct, it's better to use <code class="inline">User.t()</code> instead of
<code class="inline">%User{}</code>.</p><p>The types of the struct fields that are not included in <code class="inline">%User{}</code> default to
<code class="inline">term()</code> (see <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types"><code class="inline">term/0</code></a>).</p><p>Structs whose internal structure is private to the local module (pattern
matching them or directly accessing their fields should not be allowed) should
use the <code class="inline">@opaque</code> attribute. Structs whose internal structure is public should
use <code class="inline">@type</code>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="destructure/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#destructure/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">destructure(left, right)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4017" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Destructures two lists, assigning each term in the
right one to the matching term in the left one.</p><p>Unlike pattern matching via <code class="inline">=</code>, if the sizes of the left
and right lists don't match, destructuring simply stops
instead of raising an error.</p><h2 id="destructure/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#destructure/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">destructure</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-2">[</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">z</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-4">{</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">z</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-4">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-5">{</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6641637001-5">}</samp></code></pre><p>In the example above, even though the right list has more entries than the
left one, destructuring works fine. If the right list is smaller, the
remaining elements are simply set to <code class="inline">nil</code>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">destructure</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-2">[</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">z</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-4">{</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">z</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-4">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-5">{</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1940068490-5">}</samp></code></pre><p>The left-hand side supports any expression you would use
on the left-hand side of a match:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">destructure</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-2">[</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">y</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">z</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7815286901-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>The example above will only work if <code class="inline">x</code> matches the first value in the right
list. Otherwise, it will raise a <a href="MatchError.xhtml"><code class="inline">MatchError</code></a> (like the <code class="inline">=</code> operator would
do).</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="exit/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#exit/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">exit(reason)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L577" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> exit(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">no_return</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Stops the execution of the calling process with the given reason.</p><p>Since evaluating this function causes the process to terminate,
it has no return value.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="exit/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#exit/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><p>When a process reaches its end, by default it exits with
reason <code class="inline">:normal</code>. You can also call <a href="#exit/1"><code class="inline">exit/1</code></a> explicitly if you
want to terminate a process but not signal any failure:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">exit</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9029203378-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:normal</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9029203378-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>In case something goes wrong, you can also use <a href="#exit/1"><code class="inline">exit/1</code></a> with
a different reason:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">exit</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8684364846-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:seems_bad</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8684364846-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>If the exit reason is not <code class="inline">:normal</code>, all the processes linked to the process
that exited will crash (unless they are trapping exits).</p><h2 id="exit/1-otp-exits" class="section-heading"><a href="#exit/1-otp-exits" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">OTP exits</span></h2><p>Exits are used by the OTP to determine if a process exited abnormally
or not. The following exits are considered &quot;normal&quot;:</p><ul><li><code class="inline">exit(:normal)</code></li><li><code class="inline">exit(:shutdown)</code></li><li><code class="inline">exit({:shutdown, term})</code></li></ul><p>Exiting with any other reason is considered abnormal and treated
as a crash. This means the default supervisor behavior kicks in,
error reports are emitted, and so forth.</p><p>This behavior is relied on in many different places. For example,
<a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.html"><code class="inline">ExUnit</code></a> uses <code class="inline">exit(:shutdown)</code> when exiting the test process to
signal linked processes, supervision trees and so on to politely
shut down too.</p><h2 id="exit/1-cli-exits" class="section-heading"><a href="#exit/1-cli-exits" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">CLI exits</span></h2><p>Building on top of the exit signals mentioned above, if the
process started by the command line exits with any of the three
reasons above, its exit is considered normal and the Operating
System process will exit with status 0.</p><p>It is, however, possible to customize the operating system exit
signal by invoking:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">exit</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1758251266-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1758251266-2">{</samp><samp class="ss">:shutdown</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">integer</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1758251266-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1758251266-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>This will cause the operating system process to exit with the status given by
<code class="inline">integer</code> while signaling all linked Erlang processes to politely
shut down.</p><p>Any other exit reason will cause the operating system process to exit with
status <code class="inline">1</code> and linked Erlang processes to crash.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="function_exported?/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#function_exported?/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">function_exported?(module, function, arity)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4397" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> function_exported?(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">arity</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">module</code> is loaded and contains a
public <code class="inline">function</code> with the given <code class="inline">arity</code>, otherwise <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Note that this function does not load the module in case
it is not loaded. Check <a href="Code.xhtml#ensure_loaded/1"><code class="inline">Code.ensure_loaded/1</code></a> for more
information.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="function_exported?/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#function_exported?/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">function_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:map</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">function_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-2">(</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:map</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">10</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">function_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-3">(</samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:to_string</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9008174768-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="get_and_update_in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#get_and_update_in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">get_and_update_in(path, fun)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3263" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Gets a value and updates a nested data structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#get_and_update_in/3"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/3</code></a>, except the path is extracted
via a macro rather than passing a list. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-3">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-4">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-4">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1811054984-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-3">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1044009323-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>This also works with nested structs and the <code class="inline">struct.path.to.value</code> way to specify
paths:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5137568825-1">(</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5137568825-2">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5137568825-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5137568825-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Note that in order for this macro to work, the complete path must always
be visible by this macro. See the &quot;Paths&quot; section below.</p><h2 id="get_and_update_in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_and_update_in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-5">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-6">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-6">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-7">{</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-8">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-9">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-10">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-10">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-8">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7861510660-7">}</samp></code></pre><h2 id="get_and_update_in/2-paths" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_and_update_in/2-paths" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Paths</span></h2><p>A path may start with a variable, local or remote call, and must be
followed by one or more:</p><ul><li><p><code class="inline">foo[bar]</code> - accesses the key <code class="inline">bar</code> in <code class="inline">foo</code>; in case <code class="inline">foo</code> is nil,
<code class="inline">nil</code> is returned</p></li><li><p><code class="inline">foo.bar</code> - accesses a map/struct field; in case the field is not
present, an error is raised</p></li></ul><p>Here are some valid paths:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-1">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-1">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-3">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-3">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-4">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-5">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">all_users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-6">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-7">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6917307417-7">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp></code></pre><p>Here are some invalid ones:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="c1"># Does a remote call after the initial value</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8906548175-1">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8906548175-1">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">do_something</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8906548175-2">(</samp><samp class="n">arg1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">arg2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8906548175-2">)</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="c1"># Does not access any key or field</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">users</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="get_and_update_in/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#get_and_update_in/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">get_and_update_in(data, keys, fun)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2972" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> get_and_update_in(
  structure,
  keys,
  (<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() | nil -&gt; {current_value, new_value} | :pop)
) :: {current_value, new_structure :: structure}
when structure: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>(),
     keys: [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), ...],
     current_value: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:value/0">Access.value</a>(),
     new_value: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:value/0">Access.value</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Gets a value and updates a nested structure.</p><p><code class="inline">data</code> is a nested structure (that is, a map, keyword
list, or struct that implements the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> behaviour).</p><p>The <code class="inline">fun</code> argument receives the value of <code class="inline">key</code> (or <code class="inline">nil</code> if <code class="inline">key</code>
is not present) and must return one of the following values:</p><ul><li><p>a two-element tuple <code class="inline">{current_value, new_value}</code>. In this case,
<code class="inline">current_value</code> is the retrieved value which can possibly be operated on before
being returned. <code class="inline">new_value</code> is the new value to be stored under <code class="inline">key</code>.</p></li><li><p><code class="inline">:pop</code>, which implies that the current value under <code class="inline">key</code>
should be removed from the structure and returned.</p></li></ul><p>This function uses the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module to traverse the structures
according to the given <code class="inline">keys</code>, unless the <code class="inline">key</code> is a function,
which is detailed in a later section.</p><h2 id="get_and_update_in/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_and_update_in/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><p>This function is useful when there is a need to retrieve the current
value (or something calculated in function of the current value) and
update it at the same time. For example, it could be used to read the
current age of a user while increasing it by one in one pass:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-6">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-6">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-7">{</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-8">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-9">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-10">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-10">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-8">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8923303837-7">}</samp></code></pre><p>Note the current value given to the anonymous function may be <code class="inline">nil</code>.
If any of the intermediate values are nil, it will raise:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;jane&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-6">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-6">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7961317365-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) could not put/update key :age on a nil value</samp></code></pre><h2 id="get_and_update_in/3-functions-as-keys" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_and_update_in/3-functions-as-keys" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Functions as keys</span></h2><p>If a key is a function, the function will be invoked passing three
arguments:</p><ul><li>the operation (<code class="inline">:get_and_update</code>)</li><li>the data to be accessed</li><li>a function to be invoked next</li></ul><p>This means <a href="#get_and_update_in/3"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/3</code></a> can be extended to provide custom
lookups. The downside is that functions cannot be stored as keys
in the accessed data structures.</p><p>When one of the keys is a function, the function is invoked.
In the example below, we use a function to get and increment all
ages inside a list:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-1">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6647379785-4">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:get_and_update</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">data</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">next</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="w">  </samp><samp class="n">data</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-5">(</samp><samp class="n">next</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">unzip</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6647379785-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_and_update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-7">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-8">[</samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-8">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-9">{</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-7">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-10">{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-11">[</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-11">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-12">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-13">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-13">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-14">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">24</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-14">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-12">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6647379785-10">}</samp></code></pre><p>If the previous value before invoking the function is <code class="inline">nil</code>,
the function <em>will</em> receive <code class="inline">nil</code> as a value and must handle it
accordingly (be it by failing or providing a sane default).</p><p>The <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module ships with many convenience accessor functions,
like the <code class="inline">all</code> anonymous function defined above. See <a href="Access.xhtml#all/0"><code class="inline">Access.all/0</code></a>,
<a href="Access.xhtml#key/2"><code class="inline">Access.key/2</code></a>, and others as examples.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="get_in/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#get_in/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">get_in(path)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3066" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Gets a key from the nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>, with
nil-safe handling.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#get_in/2"><code class="inline">get_in/2</code></a>, except the path is extracted via
a macro rather than passing a list. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3306400956-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5665406009-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5665406009-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5665406009-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5665406009-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Additionally, this macro can traverse structs:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0429277912-1">(</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0429277912-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>In case any of the keys returns <code class="inline">nil</code>, then <code class="inline">nil</code> will be returned
and <a href="#get_in/1"><code class="inline">get_in/1</code></a> won't traverse any further.</p><p>Note that in order for this macro to work, the complete path must always
be visible by this macro. For more information about the supported path
expressions, please check <a href="#get_and_update_in/2"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/2</code></a> docs.</p><h2 id="get_in/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_in/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-5">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-6">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-7">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;unknown&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-7">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4256788206-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="get_in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#get_in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">get_in(data, keys)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2824" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> get_in(<a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>(), [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), ...]) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Gets a value from a nested structure with nil-safe handling.</p><p>Uses the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module to traverse the structures
according to the given <code class="inline">keys</code>, unless the <code class="inline">key</code> is a
function, which is detailed in a later section.</p><h2 id="get_in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="c1"># Equivalent to:</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-6">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-7">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6192849628-7">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp></code></pre><p><a href="#get_in/2"><code class="inline">get_in/2</code></a> can also use the accessors in the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module
to traverse more complex data structures. For example, here we
use <a href="Access.xhtml#all/0"><code class="inline">Access.all/0</code></a> to traverse a list:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-1">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-5">[</samp><samp class="nc">Access</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-6">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-7">[</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0362729946-7">]</samp></code></pre><p>In case any of the components returns <code class="inline">nil</code>, <code class="inline">nil</code> will be returned
and <a href="#get_in/2"><code class="inline">get_in/2</code></a> won't traverse any further:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;unknown&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="c1"># Equivalent to:</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-6">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;unknown&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-7">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8959065657-7">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp></code></pre><h2 id="get_in/2-functions-as-keys" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_in/2-functions-as-keys" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Functions as keys</span></h2><p>If a key given to <a href="#get_in/2"><code class="inline">get_in/2</code></a> is a function, the function will be invoked
passing three arguments:</p><ul><li>the operation (<code class="inline">:get</code>)</li><li>the data to be accessed</li><li>a function to be invoked next</li></ul><p>This means <a href="#get_in/2"><code class="inline">get_in/2</code></a> can be extended to provide custom lookups.
That's precisely how the <a href="Access.xhtml#all/0"><code class="inline">Access.all/0</code></a> key in the previous section
behaves. For example, we can manually implement such traversal as
follows:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-1">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8667687046-4">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:get</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">data</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">next</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-5">(</samp><samp class="n">data</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">next</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8667687046-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-6">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-7">[</samp><samp class="n">all</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-7">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-8">[</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8667687046-8">]</samp></code></pre><p>The <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module ships with many convenience accessor functions.
See <a href="Access.xhtml#all/0"><code class="inline">Access.all/0</code></a>, <a href="Access.xhtml#key/2"><code class="inline">Access.key/2</code></a>, and others as examples.</p><h2 id="get_in/2-working-with-structs" class="section-heading"><a href="#get_in/2-working-with-structs" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Working with structs</span></h2><p>By default, structs do not implement the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> behaviour required
by this function. Therefore, you can't do this:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8611482158-1">(</samp><samp class="n">some_struct</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8611482158-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:some_key</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:nested_key</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8611482158-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8611482158-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>There are two alternatives. Given structs have predefined keys,
we can use the <code class="inline">struct.field</code> notation:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">some_struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">some_key</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">nested_key</samp></code></pre><p>However, the code above will fail if any of the values return <code class="inline">nil</code>.
If you also want to handle nil values, you can use <a href="#get_in/1"><code class="inline">get_in/1</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">get_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5264013832-1">(</samp><samp class="n">some_struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">some_key</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">nested_key</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5264013832-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Pattern-matching is another option for handling such cases,
which can be especially useful if you want to match on several
fields at once or provide custom return values:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">case</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">some_struct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5941124206-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">some_key</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">nested_key</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-2">}</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">value</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-4">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5941124206-4">}</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5941124206-1">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="if/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#if/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">if(condition, clauses)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3913" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Provides an <a href="#if/2"><code class="inline">if/2</code></a> macro.</p><p>This macro expects the first argument to be a condition and the second
argument to be a keyword list. Generally speaking, Elixir developers
prefer to use pattern matching and guards in function definitions and
<a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#case/2"><code class="inline">case/2</code></a>, as they are succinct and precise. However, not all conditions
can be expressed through patterns and guards, which makes <a href="#if/2"><code class="inline">if/2</code></a> a viable
alternative.</p><p>Similar to <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#case/2"><code class="inline">case/2</code></a>, any assignment in the condition will be available
on both clauses, as well as after the <code class="inline">if</code> expression.</p><h2 id="if/2-one-liner-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#if/2-one-liner-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">One-liner examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3713986113-1">(</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3713986113-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>In the example above, <code class="inline">bar</code> will be returned if <code class="inline">foo</code> evaluates to
a truthy value (neither <code class="inline">false</code> nor <code class="inline">nil</code>). Otherwise, <code class="inline">nil</code> will be
returned.</p><p>An <code class="inline">else</code> option can be given to specify the opposite:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3543352402-1">(</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">else</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3543352402-1">)</samp></code></pre><h2 id="if/2-blocks-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#if/2-blocks-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Blocks examples</span></h2><p>It's also possible to pass a block to the <a href="#if/2"><code class="inline">if/2</code></a> macro. The first
example above would be translated to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8814479838-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8814479838-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>Note that <code class="inline">do</code>-<code class="inline">end</code> become delimiters. The second example would
translate to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">if</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2943705639-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2943705639-1">else</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">baz</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2943705639-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>If you find yourself nesting conditionals inside conditionals,
consider using <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#cond/1"><code class="inline">cond/1</code></a>.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="inspect/2">

    <span id="inspect/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#inspect/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">inspect(term, opts \\ [])</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2367" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> inspect(
  <a href="Inspect.xhtml#t:t/0">Inspect.t</a>(),
  <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">keyword</a>()
) :: <a href="String.xhtml#t:t/0">String.t</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Inspects the given argument according to the <a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> protocol.
The second argument is a keyword list with options to control
inspection.</p><h2 id="inspect/2-options" class="section-heading"><a href="#inspect/2-options" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Options</span></h2><p><a href="#inspect/2"><code class="inline">inspect/2</code></a> accepts a list of options that are internally
translated to an <a href="Inspect.Opts.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect.Opts</code></a> struct. Check the docs for
<a href="Inspect.Opts.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect.Opts</code></a> to see the supported options.</p><h2 id="inspect/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#inspect/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;:foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-3">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">limit</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;[1, 2, 3, ...]&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-4">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-5">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">pretty</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">width</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;[1,</samp><samp class="se">\n</samp><samp class="s"> 2,</samp><samp class="se">\n</samp><samp class="s"> 3]&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-6">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;olá&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-7">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-7">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&lt;&lt;111, 108, 195, 161, 0&gt;&gt;&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-8">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;olá&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-9">&lt;&lt;</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-9">&gt;&gt;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">binaries</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:as_strings</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="se">\&quot;</samp><samp class="s">olá</samp><samp class="se">\\</samp><samp class="s">0</samp><samp class="se">\&quot;</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-10">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;olá&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">binaries</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:as_binaries</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-10">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;&lt;&lt;111, 108, 195, 161&gt;&gt;&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-11">(</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-11">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;~c</samp><samp class="se">\&quot;</samp><samp class="s">bar</samp><samp class="se">\&quot;</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-12">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-13">[</samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-13">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-12">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;[0, 98, 97, 114]&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-14">(</samp><samp class="mi">100</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">base</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:octal</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-14">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;0o144&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-15">(</samp><samp class="mi">100</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">base</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:hex</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6546580308-15">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;0x64&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>Note that the <a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> protocol does not necessarily return a valid
representation of an Elixir term. In such cases, the inspected result
must start with <code class="inline">#</code>. For example, inspecting a function will return:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2723309425-1">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2723309425-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">b</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2723309425-2">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2723309425-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; #Function&lt;...&gt;</samp></code></pre><p>The <a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a> protocol can be derived to hide certain fields
from structs, so they don't show up in logs, inspects and similar.
See the &quot;Deriving&quot; section of the documentation of the <a href="Inspect.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect</code></a>
protocol for more information.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="macro_exported?/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#macro_exported?/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">macro_exported?(module, macro, arity)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4422" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> macro_exported?(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">arity</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">boolean</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns <code class="inline">true</code> if <code class="inline">module</code> is loaded and contains a
public <code class="inline">macro</code> with the given <code class="inline">arity</code>, otherwise <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><p>Note that this function does not load the module in case
it is not loaded. Check <a href="Code.xhtml#ensure_loaded/1"><code class="inline">Code.ensure_loaded/1</code></a> for more
information.</p><p>If <code class="inline">module</code> is an Erlang module (as opposed to an Elixir module), this
function always returns <code class="inline">false</code>.</p><h2 id="macro_exported?/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#macro_exported?/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">macro_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4170747561-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">Kernel</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:use</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4170747561-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">macro_exported?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4170747561-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">:erlang</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:abs</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4170747561-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="make_ref/0">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#make_ref/0" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">make_ref()</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L939" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> make_ref() :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">reference</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns an almost unique reference.</p><p>The returned reference will re-occur after approximately 2^82 calls;
therefore it is unique enough for practical purposes.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="make_ref/0-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#make_ref/0-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">make_ref</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1353665464-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1353665464-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; #Reference&lt;0.0.0.135&gt;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="match?/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#match?/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">match?(pattern, expr)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3512" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>A convenience macro that checks if the right side (an expression) matches the
left side (a pattern).</p><h2 id="match?/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#match?/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-3">{</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-3">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-4">{</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-4">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-5">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-5">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-7">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-7">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-8">(</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9014470165-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p><a href="#match?/2"><code class="inline">match?/2</code></a> is very useful when filtering or finding a value in an enumerable:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-1">[</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">filter</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-2">(</samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-4">{</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-4">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-3">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-5">[</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2691778777-5">]</samp></code></pre><p>Guard clauses can also be given to the match:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-1">[</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">filter</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-2">(</samp><samp class="n">list</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-4">{</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-4">}</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">when</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&lt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-3">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-5">[</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7581837612-5">]</samp></code></pre><p>Variables assigned in the match will not be available outside of the
function call (unlike regular pattern matching with the <code class="inline">=</code> operator):</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-1">(</samp><samp class="c">_x</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">binding</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-3">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2468821928-3">]</samp></code></pre><h2 id="match?/2-values-vs-patterns" class="section-heading"><a href="#match?/2-values-vs-patterns" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Values vs patterns</span></h2><p>Remember the pin operator matches <em>values</em>, not <em>patterns</em>.
Passing a variable as the pattern will always return <code class="inline">true</code> and will
result in a warning that the variable is unused:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="c1"># don&#39;t do this</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">pattern</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-1">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-2">(</samp><samp class="n">pattern</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">b</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:b</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0618759833-2">)</samp></code></pre><p>Similarly, moving an expression out the pattern may no longer preserve
its semantics. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-2">[</samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">pattern</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-4">[</samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="bp">_</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-4">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-5">(</samp><samp class="n">pattern</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5031869934-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (CompileError) invalid use of _. _ can only be used inside patterns to ignore values and cannot be used in expressions. Make sure you are inside a pattern or change it accordingly</samp></code></pre><p>Another example is that a map as a pattern performs a subset match, but not
once assigned to a variable:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">y</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">attrs</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-4">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-4">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-5">(</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">attrs</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-6">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">y</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-6">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5392277922-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; false</samp></code></pre><p>The pin operator will check if the values are equal, using <a href="#===/2"><code class="inline">===/2</code></a>, while
patterns have their own rules when matching maps, lists, and so forth.
Such behavior is not specific to <a href="#match?/2"><code class="inline">match?/2</code></a>. The following code also
throws an exception:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">attrs</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5579306769-1">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5579306769-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">attrs</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5579306769-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">x</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">y</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5579306769-2">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; (MatchError) no match of right hand side value: %{x: 1, y: 2}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="max/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#max/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">max(first, second)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L986" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> max(first, second) :: first | second when first: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), second: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the biggest of the two given terms according to
their structural comparison.</p><p>If the terms compare equal, the first one is returned.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="max/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#max/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">max</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2578424896-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2578424896-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">max</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2578424896-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;a&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;b&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2578424896-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;b&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="min/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#min/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">min(first, second)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1012" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> min(first, second) :: first | second when first: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), second: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Returns the smallest of the two given terms according to
their structural comparison.</p><p>If the terms compare equal, the first one is returned.</p><p>This performs a structural comparison where all Elixir
terms can be compared with each other. See the <a href="#module-structural-comparison">&quot;Structural
comparison&quot;</a> section
for more information.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="min/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#min/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">min</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3596733522-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3596733522-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">min</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3596733522-2">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3596733522-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="pop_in/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#pop_in/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">pop_in(path)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3162" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Pops a key from the nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#pop_in/2"><code class="inline">pop_in/2</code></a>, except the path is extracted via
a macro rather than passing a list. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1809456863-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4233872442-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4233872442-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4233872442-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4233872442-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Note that in order for this macro to work, the complete path must always
be visible by this macro. For more information about the supported path
expressions, please check <a href="#get_and_update_in/2"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/2</code></a> docs.</p><h2 id="pop_in/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#pop_in/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-7">{</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-8">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-9">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-9">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-10">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-10">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-8">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-7">}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-11">%{</samp><samp class="ss">john</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-12">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-12">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">meg</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-13">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-13">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-11">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-14">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">john</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-15">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-15">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-14">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-16">{</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-17">%{</samp><samp class="ss">john</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-18">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-18">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">meg</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-19">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-19">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-17">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8124763668-16">}</samp></code></pre><p>In case any entry returns <code class="inline">nil</code>, its key will be removed
and the deletion will be considered a success.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="pop_in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#pop_in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">pop_in(data, keys)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3010" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> pop_in(data, [<a href="Access.xhtml#t:get_and_update_fun/2">Access.get_and_update_fun</a>(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), data) | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), ...]) ::
  {<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), data}
when data: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:container/0">Access.container</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Pops a key from the given nested structure.</p><p>Uses the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> protocol to traverse the structures
according to the given <code class="inline">keys</code>, unless the <code class="inline">key</code> is a
function. If the key is a function, it will be invoked
as specified in <a href="#get_and_update_in/3"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/3</code></a>.</p><h2 id="pop_in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#pop_in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-6">{</samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-7">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-8">%{</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-8">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-7">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4892973994-6">}</samp></code></pre><p>In case any entry returns <code class="inline">nil</code>, its key will be removed
and the deletion will be considered a success.</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">pop_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;jane&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-6">{</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-7">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-8">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-8">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-7">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8694497225-6">}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="put_elem/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#put_elem/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">put_elem(tuple, index, value)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1900" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> put_elem(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">tuple</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">tuple</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Puts <code class="inline">value</code> at the given zero-based <code class="inline">index</code> in <code class="inline">tuple</code>.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="put_elem/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#put_elem/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">tuple</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-1">{</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">put_elem</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-2">(</samp><samp class="n">tuple</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">0</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-3">{</samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5589105317-3">}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="put_in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#put_in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">put_in(path, value)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3122" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Puts a value in a nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#put_in/3"><code class="inline">put_in/3</code></a>, except the path is extracted via
a macro rather than passing a list. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-3">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6721049870-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5756819413-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5756819413-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5756819413-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5756819413-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>This also works with nested structs and the <code class="inline">struct.path.to.value</code> way to specify
paths:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6550247848-1">(</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6550247848-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Note that in order for this macro to work, the complete path must always
be visible by this macro. For more information about the supported path
expressions, please check <a href="#get_and_update_in/2"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/2</code></a> docs.</p><h2 id="put_in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#put_in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-6">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-7">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-8">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-8">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-7">}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-10">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-11">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-11">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-12">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-12">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-10">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-13">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-14">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-14">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-13">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-15">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-16">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-16">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-17">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-17">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7707194404-15">}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="put_in/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#put_in/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">put_in(data, keys, value)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2856" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> put_in(<a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>(), [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), ...], <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Puts a value in a nested structure.</p><p>Uses the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module to traverse the structures
according to the given <code class="inline">keys</code>, unless the <code class="inline">key</code> is a
function. If the key is a function, it will be invoked
as specified in <a href="#get_and_update_in/3"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/3</code></a>.</p><h2 id="put_in/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#put_in/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-6">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-7">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-7">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-8">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-8">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5545750745-6">}</samp></code></pre><p>If any of the intermediate values are nil, it will raise:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">put_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;jane&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;oops&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4335484022-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) could not put/update key :age on a nil value</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="raise/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#raise/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">raise(message)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2143" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Raises an exception.</p><p>If <code class="inline">message</code> is a string, it raises a <a href="RuntimeError.xhtml"><code class="inline">RuntimeError</code></a> exception with it.</p><p>If <code class="inline">message</code> is an atom, it just calls <a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a> with the atom as the first
argument and <code class="inline">[]</code> as the second one.</p><p>If <code class="inline">message</code> is an exception struct, it is raised as is.</p><p>If <code class="inline">message</code> is anything else, <code class="inline">raise</code> will fail with an <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a>
exception.</p><h2 id="raise/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#raise/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;oops&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (RuntimeError) oops</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="k">try</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8164260978-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8164260978-1">rescue</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8164260978-2">[</samp><samp class="nc">ArithmeticError</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8164260978-2">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">puts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8164260978-3">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;that was expected&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8164260978-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8164260978-1">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="raise/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#raise/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">raise(exception, attributes)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2191" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Raises an exception.</p><p>Calls the <code class="inline">exception/1</code> function on the given argument (which has to be a
module name like <a href="ArgumentError.xhtml"><code class="inline">ArgumentError</code></a> or <a href="RuntimeError.xhtml"><code class="inline">RuntimeError</code></a>) passing <code class="inline">attributes</code>
in order to retrieve the exception struct.</p><p>Any module that contains a call to the <a href="#defexception/1"><code class="inline">defexception/1</code></a> macro automatically
implements the <a href="Exception.xhtml#c:exception/1"><code class="inline">Exception.exception/1</code></a> callback expected by <a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a>.
For more information, see <a href="#defexception/1"><code class="inline">defexception/1</code></a>.</p><h2 id="raise/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#raise/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5759166598-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">ArgumentError</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Sample&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5759166598-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) Sample</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="reraise/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#reraise/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">reraise(message, stacktrace)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2215" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Raises an exception preserving a previous stacktrace.</p><p>Works like <a href="#raise/1"><code class="inline">raise/1</code></a> but does not generate a new stacktrace.</p><p>Note that <code class="inline">__STACKTRACE__</code> can be used inside catch/rescue
to retrieve the current stacktrace.</p><h2 id="reraise/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#reraise/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">try</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5194792729-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;oops&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5194792729-1">rescue</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">exception</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">reraise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">exception</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c">__STACKTRACE__</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="5194792729-1">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="reraise/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#reraise/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">reraise(exception, attributes, stacktrace)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2257" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Raises an exception preserving a previous stacktrace.</p><p><a href="#reraise/3"><code class="inline">reraise/3</code></a> works like <a href="#reraise/2"><code class="inline">reraise/2</code></a>, except it passes arguments to the
<code class="inline">exception/1</code> function as explained in <a href="#raise/2"><code class="inline">raise/2</code></a>.</p><h2 id="reraise/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#reraise/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="k">try</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9282152226-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k">raise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;oops&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9282152226-1">rescue</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="n">exception</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">reraise</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">WrapperError</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9282152226-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">exception</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">exception</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9282152226-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c">__STACKTRACE__</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9282152226-1">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="send/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#send/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">send(dest, message)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1119" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> send(dest :: <a href="Process.xhtml#t:dest/0">Process.dest</a>(), message) :: message when message: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Sends a message to the given <code class="inline">dest</code> and returns the message.</p><p><code class="inline">dest</code> may be a remote or local PID, a local port, a locally
registered name, or a tuple in the form of <code class="inline">{registered_name, node}</code> for a
registered name at another node.</p><p>For additional documentation, see the <a href="https://www.erlang.org/doc/reference_manual/expressions#send"><code class="inline">!</code> operator Erlang
documentation</a>.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="send/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#send/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">send</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1518171996-1">(</samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1518171996-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1518171996-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:hello</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1518171996-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ss">:hello</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_C/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_C/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_C(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6373" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~C</code> for charlists.</p><p>It returns a charlist without interpolations and without escape
characters.</p><p>A charlist is a list of integers where all the integers are valid code points.
The three expressions below are equivalent:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="s">~C&quot;foo\n&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0876821187-1">[</samp><samp class="sc">?f</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?o</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?o</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?\\</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?n</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0876821187-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0876821187-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">102</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">92</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">110</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0876821187-2">]</samp></code></pre><p>In practice, charlists are mostly used in specific scenarios such as
interfacing with older Erlang libraries that do not accept binaries as arguments.</p><h2 id="sigil_C/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_C/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~C(foo)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~C(f#{o}o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{o}o&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~C(foo\n)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo</samp><samp class="se">\\</samp><samp class="s">n&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_c/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_c/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_c(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6416" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~c</code> for charlists.</p><p>It returns a charlist, unescaping characters and replacing interpolations.</p><p>A charlist is a list of integers where all the integers are valid code points.
The three expressions below are equivalent:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7788253023-1">[</samp><samp class="sc">?f</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?o</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="sc">?o</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7788253023-1">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7788253023-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">102</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7788253023-2">]</samp></code></pre><p>In practice, charlists are mostly used in specific scenarios such as
interfacing with older Erlang libraries that do not accept binaries as arguments.</p><h2 id="sigil_c/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_c/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~c(foo)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~c(f</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="1879981165-1">#{</samp><samp class="ss">:o</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="1879981165-1">}</samp><samp class="s">o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~c(f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{:o}o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{:o}o&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>The list is only printed as a <code class="inline">~c</code> sigil if all code points are within the
ASCII range:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;hełło&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8768307622-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">104</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">101</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">322</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">322</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8768307622-1">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8768307622-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">104</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">101</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">108</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">108</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">111</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8768307622-2">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;hello&quot;</samp></code></pre><p>See <a href="Inspect.Opts.xhtml"><code class="inline">Inspect.Opts</code></a> for more information.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_D/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_D/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_D(date_string, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6513" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~D</code> for dates.</p><p>By default, this sigil uses the built-in <a href="Calendar.ISO.xhtml"><code class="inline">Calendar.ISO</code></a>, which
requires dates to be written in the ISO8601 format:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~D[yyyy-mm-dd]</samp></code></pre><p>such as:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~D[2015-01-13]</samp></code></pre><p>If you are using alternative calendars, any representation can
be used as long as you follow the representation by a single space
and the calendar name:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~D[SOME-REPRESENTATION My.Alternative.Calendar]</samp></code></pre><p>The lower case <code class="inline">~d</code> variant does not exist as interpolation
and escape characters are not useful for date sigils.</p><p>More information on dates can be found in the <a href="Date.xhtml"><code class="inline">Date</code></a> module.</p><h2 id="sigil_D/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_D/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~D[2015-01-13]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~D[2015-01-13]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_N/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_N/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_N(naive_datetime_string, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6603" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~N</code> for naive date times.</p><p>By default, this sigil uses the built-in <a href="Calendar.ISO.xhtml"><code class="inline">Calendar.ISO</code></a>, which
requires naive date times to be written in the ISO8601 format:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~N[yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~N[yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.ssssss]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~N[yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.ssssss]</samp></code></pre><p>such as:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13 13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13T13:00:07.123]</samp></code></pre><p>If you are using alternative calendars, any representation can
be used as long as you follow the representation by a single space
and the calendar name:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~N[SOME-REPRESENTATION My.Alternative.Calendar]</samp></code></pre><p>The lower case <code class="inline">~n</code> variant does not exist as interpolation
and escape characters are not useful for date time sigils.</p><p>More information on naive date times can be found in the
<a href="NaiveDateTime.xhtml"><code class="inline">NaiveDateTime</code></a> module.</p><h2 id="sigil_N/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_N/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13 13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13 13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13T13:00:07.001]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~N[2015-01-13 13:00:07.001]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_r/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_r/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_r(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6448" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~r</code> for regular expressions.</p><p>It returns a regular expression pattern, unescaping characters and replacing
interpolations.</p><p>More information on regular expressions can be found in the <a href="Regex.xhtml"><code class="inline">Regex</code></a> module.</p><h2 id="sigil_r/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_r/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Regex</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5585424299-1">(</samp><samp class="sr">~r/foo/</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5585424299-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Regex</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">match?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5585424299-2">(</samp><samp class="sr">~r/a</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5585424299-3">#{</samp><samp class="ss">:b</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5585424299-3">}</samp><samp class="sr">c/</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;abc&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5585424299-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>While the <code class="inline">~r</code> sigil allows parens and brackets to be used as delimiters,
it is preferred to use <code class="inline">&quot;</code> or <code class="inline">/</code> to avoid escaping conflicts with reserved
regex characters.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_S/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_S/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_S(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6314" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~S</code> for strings.</p><p>It returns a string without interpolations and without escape
characters.</p><h2 id="sigil_S/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_S/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~S(foo)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~S(f#{o}o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{o}o&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~S(\o/)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="se">\\</samp><samp class="s">o/&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_s/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_s/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_s(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6335" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~s</code> for strings.</p><p>It returns a string as if it was a double quoted string, unescaping characters
and replacing interpolations.</p><h2 id="sigil_s/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_s/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~s(foo)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~s(f</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="6348450628-1">#{</samp><samp class="ss">:o</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="6348450628-1">}</samp><samp class="s">o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="s">~s(f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{:o}o)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;f</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{:o}o&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_T/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_T/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_T(time_string, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6553" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~T</code> for times.</p><p>By default, this sigil uses the built-in <a href="Calendar.ISO.xhtml"><code class="inline">Calendar.ISO</code></a>, which
requires times to be written in the ISO8601 format:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~T[hh:mm:ss]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~T[hh:mm:ss.ssssss]</samp></code></pre><p>such as:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07.123]</samp></code></pre><p>If you are using alternative calendars, any representation can
be used as long as you follow the representation by a single space
and the calendar name:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~T[SOME-REPRESENTATION My.Alternative.Calendar]</samp></code></pre><p>The lower case <code class="inline">~t</code> variant does not exist as interpolation
and escape characters are not useful for time sigils.</p><p>More information on times can be found in the <a href="Time.xhtml"><code class="inline">Time</code></a> module.</p><h2 id="sigil_T/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_T/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07.001]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~T[13:00:07.001]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_U/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_U/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_U(datetime_string, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.9.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6659" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~U</code> to create a UTC <a href="DateTime.xhtml"><code class="inline">DateTime</code></a>.</p><p>By default, this sigil uses the built-in <a href="Calendar.ISO.xhtml"><code class="inline">Calendar.ISO</code></a>, which
requires UTC date times to be written in the ISO8601 format:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~U[yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ssZ]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~U[yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.ssssssZ]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~U[yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ss.ssssss+00:00]</samp></code></pre><p>such as:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13 13:00:07Z]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13T13:00:07.123+00:00]</samp></code></pre><p>If you are using alternative calendars, any representation can
be used as long as you follow the representation by a single space
and the calendar name:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="ld">~U[SOME-REPRESENTATION My.Alternative.Calendar]</samp></code></pre><p>The given <code class="inline">datetime_string</code> must include &quot;Z&quot; or &quot;00:00&quot; offset
which marks it as UTC, otherwise an error is raised.</p><p>The lower case <code class="inline">~u</code> variant does not exist as interpolation
and escape characters are not useful for date time sigils.</p><p>More information on date times can be found in the <a href="DateTime.xhtml"><code class="inline">DateTime</code></a> module.</p><h2 id="sigil_U/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_U/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13 13:00:07Z]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13 13:00:07Z]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13T13:00:07.001+00:00]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ld">~U[2015-01-13 13:00:07.001Z]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_W/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_W/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_W(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6782" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~W</code> for list of words.</p><p>It returns a list of &quot;words&quot; split by whitespace without interpolations
and without escape characters.</p><h2 id="sigil_W/2-modifiers" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_W/2-modifiers" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Modifiers</span></h2><ul><li><code class="inline">s</code>: words in the list are strings (default)</li><li><code class="inline">a</code>: words in the list are atoms</li><li><code class="inline">c</code>: words in the list are charlists</li></ul><h2 id="sigil_W/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_W/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~W(foo #{bar} baz)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1442182479-1">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;</samp><samp class="se">\#</samp><samp class="s">{bar}&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;baz&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1442182479-1">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="sigil_w/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#sigil_w/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">sigil_w(term, modifiers)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6753" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Handles the sigil <code class="inline">~w</code> for list of words.</p><p>It returns a list of &quot;words&quot; split by whitespace. Character unescaping and
interpolation happens for each word.</p><h2 id="sigil_w/2-modifiers" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_w/2-modifiers" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Modifiers</span></h2><ul><li><code class="inline">s</code>: words in the list are strings (default)</li><li><code class="inline">a</code>: words in the list are atoms</li><li><code class="inline">c</code>: words in the list are charlists</li></ul><h2 id="sigil_w/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#sigil_w/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~w(foo </samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5552847719-1">#{</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5552847719-1">}</samp><samp class="sx"> baz)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-2">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;baz&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-2">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~w(foo </samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5552847719-3">#{</samp><samp class="s">&quot; bar baz &quot;</samp><samp class="si" data-group-id="5552847719-3">}</samp><samp class="sx">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-4">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;baz&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-4">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~w(--source test/enum_test.exs)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;--source&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;test/enum_test.exs&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-5">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~w(foo bar baz)a</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:baz</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-6">]</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="sx">~w(foo bar baz)c</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-7">[</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;bar&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;baz&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5552847719-7">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn(fun)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1159" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn((-&gt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>())) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given function and returns its PID.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions.</p><p>The anonymous function receives 0 arguments, and may return any value.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">child</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">spawn</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-2">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9419389399-3">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">send</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-4">(</samp><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-5">{</samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-6">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-5">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9419389399-3">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-2">)</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="k">receive</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9419389399-7">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-8">{</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">child</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-8">}</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">puts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-9">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Received 3 back&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9419389399-9">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9419389399-7">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn(module, fun, args)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1182" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given function <code class="inline">fun</code> from the given <code class="inline">module</code> passing it the given
<code class="inline">args</code> and returns its PID.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">spawn</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2068333503-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">SomeModule</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:function</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2068333503-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2068333503-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2068333503-1">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn_link/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn_link/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn_link(fun)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1212" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn_link((-&gt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>())) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given function, links it to the current process, and returns its PID.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions. For more
information on linking, check <a href="Process.xhtml#link/1"><code class="inline">Process.link/1</code></a>.</p><p>The anonymous function receives 0 arguments, and may return any value.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn_link/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn_link/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">child</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">spawn_link</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-2">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8616273363-3">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">send</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-4">(</samp><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-5">{</samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-6">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-5">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8616273363-3">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-2">)</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="k">receive</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8616273363-7">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-8">{</samp><samp class="o">^</samp><samp class="n">child</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-8">}</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">puts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-9">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Received 3 back&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8616273363-9">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="8616273363-7">end</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn_link/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn_link/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn_link(module, fun, args)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1236" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn_link(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given function <code class="inline">fun</code> from the given <code class="inline">module</code> passing it the given
<code class="inline">args</code>, links it to the current process, and returns its PID.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions. For more
information on linking, check <a href="Process.xhtml#link/1"><code class="inline">Process.link/1</code></a>.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn_link/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn_link/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">spawn_link</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9317266605-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">SomeModule</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:function</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9317266605-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9317266605-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9317266605-1">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn_monitor/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn_monitor/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn_monitor(fun)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1262" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn_monitor((-&gt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">any</a>())) :: {<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">reference</a>()}</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given function, monitors it and returns its PID
and monitoring reference.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions.</p><p>The anonymous function receives 0 arguments, and may return any value.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn_monitor/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn_monitor/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">spawn_monitor</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-2">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7398495578-3">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">send</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-4">(</samp><samp class="n">current</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-5">{</samp><samp class="n">self</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-6">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-6">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-5">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-4">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7398495578-3">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7398495578-2">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="spawn_monitor/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#spawn_monitor/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">spawn_monitor(module, fun, args)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1285" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> spawn_monitor(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">atom</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">list</a>()) :: {<a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">pid</a>(), <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">reference</a>()}</pre>

      </div>

<p>Spawns the given module and function passing the given args,
monitors it and returns its PID and monitoring reference.</p><p>Typically developers do not use the <code class="inline">spawn</code> functions, instead they use
abstractions such as <a href="Task.xhtml"><code class="inline">Task</code></a>, <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> and <a href="Agent.xhtml"><code class="inline">Agent</code></a>, built on top of
<code class="inline">spawn</code>, that spawns processes with more conveniences in terms of
introspection and debugging.</p><p>Check the <a href="Process.xhtml"><code class="inline">Process</code></a> module for more process-related functions.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p><h2 id="spawn_monitor/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#spawn_monitor/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">spawn_monitor</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7094280747-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">SomeModule</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:function</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7094280747-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7094280747-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7094280747-1">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="struct/2">

    <span id="struct/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#struct/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">struct(struct, fields \\ [])</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2422" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> struct(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">struct</a>(), <a href="Enumerable.xhtml#t:t/0">Enumerable.t</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">struct</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Creates and updates a struct.</p><p>The <code class="inline">struct</code> argument may be an atom (which defines <code class="inline">defstruct</code>)
or a <code class="inline">struct</code> itself. The second argument is any <a href="Enumerable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enumerable</code></a> that
emits two-element tuples (key-value pairs) during enumeration.</p><p>Keys in the <a href="Enumerable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enumerable</code></a> that don't exist in the struct are automatically
discarded. Note that keys must be atoms, as only atoms are allowed when
defining a struct. If there are duplicate keys in the <a href="Enumerable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enumerable</code></a>, the last
entry will be taken (same behavior as <a href="Map.xhtml#new/1"><code class="inline">Map.new/1</code></a>).</p><p>This function is useful for dynamically creating and updating structs, as
well as for converting maps to structs; in the latter case, just inserting
the appropriate <code class="inline">:__struct__</code> field into the map may not be enough and
<a href="#struct/2"><code class="inline">struct/2</code></a> should be used instead.</p><h2 id="struct/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#struct/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7885193231-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defstruct</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7885193231-1">end</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-2">(</samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %User{name: &quot;john&quot;}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-3">]</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">user</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-4">(</samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %User{name: &quot;meg&quot;}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-5">(</samp><samp class="n">user</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">unknown</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;value&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-5">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %User{name: &quot;meg&quot;}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-6">(</samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-7">%{</samp><samp class="ss">name</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-7">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-6">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %User{name: &quot;meg&quot;}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="c1"># String keys are ignored</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-8">(</samp><samp class="nc">User</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-9">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;name&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7885193231-8">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="c1">#=&gt; %User{name: &quot;john&quot;}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="struct!/2">

    <span id="struct!/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#struct!/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">struct!(struct, fields \\ [])</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2453" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> struct!(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">module</a>() | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">struct</a>(), <a href="Enumerable.xhtml#t:t/0">Enumerable.t</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">struct</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Similar to <a href="#struct/2"><code class="inline">struct/2</code></a> but checks for key validity.</p><p>The function <a href="#struct!/2"><code class="inline">struct!/2</code></a> emulates the compile time behavior
of structs. This means that:</p><ul><li><p>when building a struct, as in <code class="inline">struct!(SomeStruct, key: :value)</code>,
it is equivalent to <code class="inline">%SomeStruct{key: :value}</code> and therefore this
function will check if every given key-value belongs to the struct.
If the struct is enforcing any key via <code class="inline">@enforce_keys</code>, those will
be enforced as well;</p></li><li><p>when updating a struct, as in <code class="inline">struct!(%SomeStruct{}, key: :value)</code>,
it is equivalent to <code class="inline">%SomeStruct{struct | key: :value}</code> and therefore this
function will check if every given key-value belongs to the struct.</p></li></ul>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="tap/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#tap/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">tap(value, fun)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.12.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1311" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Pipes the first argument, <code class="inline">value</code>, into the second argument, a function <code class="inline">fun</code>,
and returns <code class="inline">value</code> itself.</p><p>Useful for running synchronous side effects in a pipeline, using the <a href="#%7C%3E/2"><code class="inline">|&gt;/2</code></a> operator.</p><h2 id="tap/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#tap/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">tap</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6482675120-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6482675120-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6482675120-2">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6482675120-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre><p>Most commonly, this is used in pipelines, using the <a href="#%7C%3E/2"><code class="inline">|&gt;/2</code></a> operator.
For example, let's suppose you want to inspect part of a data structure.
You could write:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-1">%{</samp><samp class="ss">a</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Map</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">update!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">tap</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-3">(</samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">IO</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">inspect</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-4">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-4">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Map</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">update!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-5">(</samp><samp class="ss">:a</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5325626527-5">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="then/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#then/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">then(value, fun)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.12.0)</span>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2734" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Pipes the first argument, <code class="inline">value</code>, into the second argument, a function <code class="inline">fun</code>,
and returns the result of calling <code class="inline">fun</code>.</p><p>In other words, it invokes the function <code class="inline">fun</code> with <code class="inline">value</code> as argument,
and returns its result.</p><p>This is most commonly used in pipelines, using the <a href="#%7C%3E/2"><code class="inline">|&gt;/2</code></a> operator, allowing you
to pipe a value to a function outside of its first argument.</p><h3 id="then/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#then/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h3><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">then</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-1">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3726362597-2">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3726362597-2">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">then</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-3">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3726362597-4">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">drop</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-6">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;a&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;b&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;c&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-6">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="3726362597-4">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-7">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;b&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;c&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3726362597-7">]</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="throw/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#throw/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">throw(term)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L1329" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> throw(<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">no_return</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>A non-local return from a function.</p><p>Using <a href="#throw/1"><code class="inline">throw/1</code></a> is generally discouraged, as it allows a function
to escape from its regular execution flow, which can make the code
harder to read. Furthermore, all thrown values must be caught by
<code class="inline">try/catch</code>. See <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#try/1"><code class="inline">try/1</code></a> for more information.</p><p>Inlined by the compiler.</p>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="to_charlist/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#to_charlist/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">to_charlist(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3409" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Converts the given term to a charlist according to the <a href="List.Chars.xhtml"><code class="inline">List.Chars</code></a> protocol.</p><h2 id="to_charlist/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_charlist/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_charlist</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130653443-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="3130653443-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">~c&quot;foo&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="to_string/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#to_string/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">to_string(term)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3396" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Converts the argument to a string according to the
<a href="String.Chars.xhtml"><code class="inline">String.Chars</code></a> protocol.</p><p>This is the function invoked when there is string interpolation.</p><h2 id="to_string/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_string/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_string</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7187409385-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7187409385-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;foo&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="to_timeout/1">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#to_timeout/1" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">to_timeout(duration)</h1>

        <span class="note">(since 1.17.0)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L6219" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> to_timeout([{unit, <a href="typespecs.xhtml#basic-types">non_neg_integer</a>()}] | <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">timeout</a>() | <a href="Duration.xhtml#t:t/0">Duration.t</a>()) :: <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">timeout</a>()
when unit: :week | :day | :hour | :minute | :second | :millisecond</pre>

      </div>

<p>Constructs a millisecond timeout from the given components, duration, or timeout.</p><p>This function is useful for constructing timeouts to use in functions that
expect <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types"><code class="inline">timeout/0</code></a> values (such as <a href="Process.xhtml#send_after/4"><code class="inline">Process.send_after/4</code></a> and many others).</p><h2 id="to_timeout/1-argument" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_timeout/1-argument" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Argument</span></h2><p>The <code class="inline">duration</code> argument can be one of a <a href="Duration.xhtml"><code class="inline">Duration</code></a>, a <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types"><code class="inline">timeout/0</code></a>, or a list
of components. Each of these is described below.</p><h3 id="to_timeout/1-passing-durations" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_timeout/1-passing-durations" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Passing <a href="Duration.xhtml"><code class="inline">Duration</code></a>s</span></h3><p><a href="Duration.xhtml#t:t/0"><code class="inline">Duration.t/0</code></a> structs can be converted to timeouts. The given duration must have
<code class="inline">year</code> and <code class="inline">month</code> fields set to <code class="inline">0</code>, since those cannot be reliably converted to
milliseconds (due to the varying number of days in a month and year).</p><p>Microseconds in durations are converted to milliseconds (through <a href="System.xhtml#convert_time_unit/3"><code class="inline">System.convert_time_unit/3</code></a>).</p><h3 id="to_timeout/1-passing-components" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_timeout/1-passing-components" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Passing components</span></h3><p>The <code class="inline">duration</code> argument can also be keyword list which can contain the following
keys, each appearing at most once with a non-negative integer value:</p><ul><li><code class="inline">:week</code> - the number of weeks (a week is always 7 days)</li><li><code class="inline">:day</code> - the number of days (a day is always 24 hours)</li><li><code class="inline">:hour</code> - the number of hours</li><li><code class="inline">:minute</code> - the number of minutes</li><li><code class="inline">:second</code> - the number of seconds</li><li><code class="inline">:millisecond</code> - the number of milliseconds</li></ul><p>The timeout is calculated as the sum of the components, each multiplied by
the corresponding factor.</p><h3 id="to_timeout/1-passing-timeouts" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_timeout/1-passing-timeouts" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Passing timeouts</span></h3><p>You can also pass timeouts directly to this functions, that is, milliseconds or
the atom <code class="inline">:infinity</code>. In this case, this function just returns the given argument.</p><h2 id="to_timeout/1-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#to_timeout/1-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><p>With a keyword list:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_timeout</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1946216855-1">(</samp><samp class="ss">hour</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">minute</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">30</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1946216855-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">5400000</samp></code></pre><p>With a duration:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_timeout</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2717214825-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2717214825-2">%</samp><samp class="nc" data-group-id="2717214825-2">Duration</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2717214825-2">{</samp><samp class="ss">hour</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">minute</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">30</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2717214825-2">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2717214825-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">5400000</samp></code></pre><p>With a timeout:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_timeout</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7331013446-1">(</samp><samp class="mi">5400000</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7331013446-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">5400000</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">to_timeout</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7331013446-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">:infinity</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7331013446-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="ss">:infinity</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="unless/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#unless/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">unless(condition, clauses)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3965" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

    <div class="deprecated">
      This macro is deprecated. Use if/2 instead.
    </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Provides an <code class="inline">unless</code> macro.</p><p>This macro evaluates and returns the <code class="inline">do</code> block passed in as the second
argument if <code class="inline">condition</code> evaluates to a falsy value (<code class="inline">false</code> or <code class="inline">nil</code>).
Otherwise, it returns the value of the <code class="inline">else</code> block if present or <code class="inline">nil</code> if not.</p><p>See also <a href="#if/2"><code class="inline">if/2</code></a>.</p><h2 id="unless/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#unless/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="k">unless</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-3">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">nil</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="k">unless</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-4">(</samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-5">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">do</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="k">unless</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">sum</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-7">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-8">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-8">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1664332310-7">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">==</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">5</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1664332310-9">do</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="w">  </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Math still works&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1664332310-9">else</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="w">  </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Math is broken&quot;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">...&gt; </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="1664332310-9">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Math still works&quot;</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="update_in/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#update_in/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">update_in(path, fun)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L3199" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Updates a nested structure via the given <code class="inline">path</code>.</p><p>This is similar to <a href="#update_in/3"><code class="inline">update_in/3</code></a>, except the path is extracted via
a macro rather than passing a list. For example:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-3">[</samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-3">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-4">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-4">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7975127900-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Is equivalent to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-1">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-2">[</samp><samp class="ss">:foo</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:bar</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-3">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-3">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9028227414-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>This also works with nested structs and the <code class="inline">struct.path.to.value</code> way to specify
paths:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7495934893-1">(</samp><samp class="n">struct</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">foo</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">bar</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7495934893-2">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7495934893-2">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7495934893-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>Note that in order for this macro to work, the complete path must always
be visible by this macro. For more information about the supported path
expressions, please check <a href="#get_and_update_in/2"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/2</code></a> docs.</p><h2 id="update_in/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#update_in/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-5">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-6">[</samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-6">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-7">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-7">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-8">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-9">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-10">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-10">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-8">}</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-11">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-12">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-12">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-13">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-13">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-11">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-14">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-15">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-15">]</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">age</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-16">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-16">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-14">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-17">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-18">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-18">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-19">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-19">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5494602192-17">}</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="update_in/3">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#update_in/3" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this function">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">update_in(data, keys, fun)</h1>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L2889" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

      <div class="specs">

          <pre translate="no"><span class="attribute">@spec</span> update_in(<a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>(), [<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>(), ...], (<a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>() -&gt; <a href="typespecs.xhtml#built-in-types">term</a>())) :: <a href="Access.xhtml#t:t/0">Access.t</a>()</pre>

      </div>

<p>Updates a key in a nested structure.</p><p>Uses the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> module to traverse the structures
according to the given <code class="inline">keys</code>, unless the <code class="inline">key</code> is a
function. If the key is a function, it will be invoked
as specified in <a href="#get_and_update_in/3"><code class="inline">get_and_update_in/3</code></a>.</p><p><code class="inline">data</code> is a nested structure (that is, a map, keyword
list, or struct that implements the <a href="Access.xhtml"><code class="inline">Access</code></a> behaviour).
The <code class="inline">fun</code> argument receives the value of <code class="inline">key</code> (or <code class="inline">nil</code>
if <code class="inline">key</code> is not present) and the result replaces the value
in the structure.</p><h2 id="update_in/3-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#update_in/3-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-6">(</samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-6">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-7">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-8">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">28</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-8">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-9">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-9">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8721647109-7">}</samp></code></pre><p>Note the current value given to the anonymous function may be <code class="inline">nil</code>.
If any of the intermediate values are nil, it will raise:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-1">%{</samp><samp class="s">&quot;john&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-2">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">27</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-2">}</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;meg&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p">=&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-3">%{</samp><samp class="ss">age</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">23</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-3">}</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-1">}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="n">update_in</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-4">(</samp><samp class="n">users</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-5">[</samp><samp class="s">&quot;jane&quot;</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:age</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-5">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">+</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6002484964-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gt">** (ArgumentError) could not put/update key :age on a nil value</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="use/2">

    <span id="use/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#use/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">use(module, opts \\ [])</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L5952" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Uses the given module in the current context.</p><p>When calling:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kn">use</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">some</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">:options</samp></code></pre><p>Elixir will invoke <code class="inline">MyModule.__using__/1</code> passing the second argument of
<code class="inline">use</code> as its argument. Since <code class="inline">__using__/1</code> is typically a macro, all
the usual macro rules apply, and its return value should be quoted code
that is then inserted where <a href="#use/2"><code class="inline">use/2</code></a> is called.</p><section role="note" class="admonition warning"><h4 class="admonition-title warning">Code injection</h4><p><code class="inline">use MyModule</code> works as a <strong>code-injection point</strong> in the caller.
Given the caller of <code class="inline">use MyModule</code> has little control over how the
code is injected, <a href="#use/2"><code class="inline">use/2</code></a> should be used with care. If you can,
avoid use in favor of <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#import/2"><code class="inline">import/2</code></a> or <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#alias/2"><code class="inline">alias/2</code></a> whenever possible.</p></section><h2 id="use/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#use/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><p>For example, to write test cases using the <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.html"><code class="inline">ExUnit</code></a> framework provided
with Elixir, a developer should <code class="inline">use</code> the <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.Case.html"><code class="inline">ExUnit.Case</code></a> module:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">AssertionTest</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7315299930-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">use</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ExUnit.Case</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ss">async</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="n">test</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;always pass&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7315299930-2">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">assert</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7315299930-2">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7315299930-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>In this example, Elixir will call the <code class="inline">__using__/1</code> macro in the
<a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.Case.html"><code class="inline">ExUnit.Case</code></a> module with the keyword list <code class="inline">[async: true]</code> as its
argument.</p><p>In other words, <a href="#use/2"><code class="inline">use/2</code></a> translates to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">AssertionTest</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4679253374-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kn">require</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ExUnit.Case</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="nc">ExUnit.Case</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="c">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4679253374-2">(</samp><samp class="ss">async</samp><samp class="p">:</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="4679253374-2">)</samp><samp class="w">

  </samp><samp class="n">test</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;always pass&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4679253374-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="n">assert</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4679253374-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="4679253374-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>where <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ex_unit/ExUnit.Case.html"><code class="inline">ExUnit.Case</code></a> defines the <code class="inline">__using__/1</code> macro:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">ExUnit.Case</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2224943702-2">(</samp><samp class="n">opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2224943702-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="c1"># do something with opts</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="c1"># return some code to inject in the caller</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2224943702-1">end</samp></code></pre><h2 id="use/2-best-practices" class="section-heading"><a href="#use/2-best-practices" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Best practices</span></h2><p><code class="inline">__using__/1</code> is typically used when there is a need to set some state
(via module attributes) or callbacks (like <code class="inline">@before_compile</code>, see the
documentation for <a href="Module.xhtml"><code class="inline">Module</code></a> for more information) into the caller.</p><p><code class="inline">__using__/1</code> may also be used to alias, require, or import functionality
from different modules:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7708368884-2">(</samp><samp class="c">_opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="7708368884-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule.Foo</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule.Bar</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule.Baz</samp><samp class="w">

      </samp><samp class="kn">alias</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule.Repo</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="7708368884-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>However, do not provide <code class="inline">__using__/1</code> if all it does is to import,
alias or require the module itself. For example, avoid this:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="kd">defmodule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-1">do</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="kd">defmacro</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nf">__using__</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2221736031-2">(</samp><samp class="c">_opts</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="2221736031-2">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-3">do</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k">quote</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-4">do</samp><samp class="w">
      </samp><samp class="kn">import</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">MyModule</samp><samp class="w">
    </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-4">end</samp><samp class="w">
  </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-3">end</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="2221736031-1">end</samp></code></pre><p>In such cases, developers should instead import or alias the module
directly, so that they can customize those as they wish,
without the indirection behind <a href="#use/2"><code class="inline">use/2</code></a>. Developers must also avoid
defining functions inside <code class="inline">__using__/1</code>.</p><p>Given <code class="inline">use MyModule</code> can generate any code, it may not be easy for
developers to understand the impact of <code class="inline">use MyModule</code>.</p><p>For this reason, to provide guidance and clarity, we recommend developers
to include an admonition block in their <code class="inline">@moduledoc</code> that explains how
<code class="inline">use MyModule</code> impacts their code. As an example, the <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> documentation
outlines:</p><section role="note" class="admonition info"><h4 class="admonition-title info"><code class="inline">use GenServer</code></h4><p>When you <code class="inline">use GenServer</code>, the <a href="GenServer.xhtml"><code class="inline">GenServer</code></a> module will
set <code class="inline">@behaviour GenServer</code> and define a <code class="inline">child_spec/1</code>
function, so your module can be used as a child
in a supervision tree.</p></section><p>This provides a quick summary of how using a module impacts the user code.
Keep in mind to only list changes made to the public API of the module.
For example, if <code class="inline">use MyModule</code> sets an internal attribute called
<code class="inline">@_my_module_info</code> and this attribute is never meant to be public,
it must not be listed.</p><p>For convenience, the markup notation to generate the admonition block
above is:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="c1">#### `use GenServer` {: .info}</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">When</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">you</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="kn">use</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">GenServer</samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">the</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">GenServer</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">will</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">set</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="na">@behaviour</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">GenServer</samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">and</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">define</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="n">child_spec</samp><samp class="o">/</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="err">`</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">function</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">so</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">your</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">module</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">can</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">be</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">used</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">as</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">child</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="o">&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ow">in</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">a</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">supervision</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">tree</samp><samp class="o">.</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="var!/2">

    <span id="var!/1"></span>

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#var!/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">var!(var, context \\ nil)</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4740" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Marks that the given variable should not be hygienized.</p><p>This macro expects a variable and it is typically invoked
inside <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#quote/2"><code class="inline">quote/2</code></a> to mark that a variable
should not be hygienized. See <a href="Kernel.SpecialForms.xhtml#quote/2"><code class="inline">quote/2</code></a> for more information.</p><h2 id="var!/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#var!/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Kernel</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">var!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9372905754-1">(</samp><samp class="n">example</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9372905754-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Kernel</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">var!</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9372905754-2">(</samp><samp class="n">example</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9372905754-2">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%7C%3E/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%7C%3E/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left |&gt; right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4367" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Pipe operator.</p><p>This operator introduces the expression on the left-hand side as
the first argument to the function call on the right-hand side.</p><h2 id="%7C%3E/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%7C%3E/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">flatten</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0716656243-4">]</samp></code></pre><p>The example above is the same as calling <code class="inline">List.flatten([1, [2], 3])</code>.</p><p>The <a href="#%7C%3E/2"><code class="inline">|&gt;/2</code></a> operator is mostly useful when there is a desire to execute a series
of operations resembling a pipeline:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-1">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-2">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-1">]</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">flatten</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-3">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-4">(</samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6369449037-5">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="6369449037-5">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-4">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-6">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">4</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">6</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6369449037-6">]</samp></code></pre><p>In the example above, the list <code class="inline">[1, [2], 3]</code> is passed as the first argument
to the <a href="List.xhtml#flatten/1"><code class="inline">List.flatten/1</code></a> function, then the flattened list is passed as the
first argument to the <a href="Enum.xhtml#map/2"><code class="inline">Enum.map/2</code></a> function which doubles each element of the
list.</p><p>In other words, the expression above simply translates to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">map</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-1">(</samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">flatten</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-3">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-4">]</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">3</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-3">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-2">)</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9319351480-5">fn</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">-&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">x</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">*</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">2</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k" data-group-id="9319351480-5">end</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9319351480-1">)</samp></code></pre><h2 id="%7C%3E/2-pitfalls" class="section-heading"><a href="#%7C%3E/2-pitfalls" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Pitfalls</span></h2><p>There are two common pitfalls when using the pipe operator.</p><p>The first one is related to operator precedence. For example,
the following expression:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">graphemes</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp></code></pre><p>Translates to:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">graphemes</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1638374862-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1638374862-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1638374862-2">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="1638374862-1">)</samp></code></pre><p>which results in an error as the <a href="Enumerable.xhtml"><code class="inline">Enumerable</code></a> protocol is not defined
for binaries. Adding explicit parentheses resolves the ambiguity:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">graphemes</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5752634910-1">(</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5752634910-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5752634910-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="5752634910-2">)</samp></code></pre><p>Or, even better:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">String</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">graphemes</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6704397512-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6704397512-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">reverse</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6704397512-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="6704397512-2">)</samp></code></pre><p>The second limitation is that Elixir always pipes to a function
call. Therefore, to pipe into an anonymous function, you need to
invoke it:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">some_fun</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">Regex</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">replace</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8594608137-1">(</samp><samp class="sr">~r/l/</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;L&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8594608137-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">some_fun</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8594608137-2">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="8594608137-2">)</samp></code></pre><p>Alternatively, you can use <a href="#then/2"><code class="inline">then/2</code></a> for the same effect:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="n">some_fun</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">=</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">Regex</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">replace</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9917868881-1">(</samp><samp class="sr">~r/l/</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;L&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9917868881-1">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">then</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9917868881-2">(</samp><samp class="n">some_fun</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9917868881-2">)</samp></code></pre><p><a href="#then/2"><code class="inline">then/2</code></a> is most commonly used when you want to pipe to a function
but the value is expected outside of the first argument, such as
above. By replacing <code class="inline">some_fun</code> by its value, we get:</p><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="s">&quot;Hello&quot;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">|&gt;</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="n">then</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0554967496-1">(</samp><samp class="o">&amp;</samp><samp class="nc">Regex</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">replace</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0554967496-2">(</samp><samp class="sr">~r/l/</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="ni">&amp;1</samp><samp class="p">,</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="s">&quot;L&quot;</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0554967496-2">)</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="0554967496-1">)</samp></code></pre>
  </section>
</section>
<section class="detail" id="%7C%7C/2">

  <div class="detail-header">
    <a href="#%7C%7C/2" class="detail-link" data-no-tooltip="" aria-label="Link to this macro">
      <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
    </a>
    <div class="heading-with-actions">
      <h1 class="signature" translate="no">left || right</h1>

        <span class="note">(macro)</span>


        <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/blob/v1.18.4/lib/elixir/lib/kernel.ex#L4281" class="icon-action" rel="help" aria-label="View Source">
          <i class="ri-code-s-slash-line" aria-hidden="true"></i>
        </a>

    </div>
  </div>

  <section class="docstring">

<p>Boolean &quot;or&quot; operator.</p><p>Provides a short-circuit operator that evaluates and returns the second
expression only if the first one does not evaluate to a truthy value (that is,
it is either <code class="inline">nil</code> or <code class="inline">false</code>). Returns the first expression otherwise.</p><p>Not allowed in guard clauses.</p><h2 id="%7C%7C/2-examples" class="section-heading"><a href="#%7C%7C/2-examples" class="hover-link"><i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i></a><span class="text">Examples</span></h2><pre><code class="makeup elixir" translate="no"><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-1">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-2">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-2">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-1">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">||</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-3">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-4">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-4">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-3">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">false</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">List</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">first</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-5">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-6">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-6">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-5">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">||</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-7">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-8">[</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-8">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-7">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">||</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="mi">1</samp><samp class="w">

</samp><samp class="gp unselectable">iex&gt; </samp><samp class="nc">Enum</samp><samp class="o">.</samp><samp class="n">empty?</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-9">(</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-10">[</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-10">]</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-9">)</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="o">||</samp><samp class="w"> </samp><samp class="k">throw</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-11">(</samp><samp class="ss">:bad</samp><samp class="p" data-group-id="9887887574-11">)</samp><samp class="w">
</samp><samp class="no">true</samp></code></pre><p>Note that, unlike <a href="#or/2"><code class="inline">or/2</code></a>, this operator accepts any expression
as the first argument, not only booleans.</p>
  </section>
</section>

        </div>
      </section>


  </body>
</html>
