<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Introduction to Deployment - Phoenix v1.7.21</title>
    <meta name="generator" content="ExDoc v0.37.3" />
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="dist/epub-elixir-FNUUKFP7.css" />
    <script src="dist/epub-4WIP524F.js"></script>

  </head>
  <body class="content-inner">

    <h1 id="content">
Introduction to Deployment
    </h1>
<p>Once we have a working application, we're ready to deploy it. If you're not quite finished with your own application, don't worry. Just follow the <a href="up_and_running.html">Up and Running Guide</a> to create a basic application to work with.</p><p>When preparing an application for deployment, there are three main steps:</p><ul><li>Handling of your application secrets</li><li>Compiling your application assets</li><li>Starting your server in production</li></ul><p>In this guide, we will learn how to get the production environment running locally. You can use the same techniques in this guide to run your application in production, but depending on your deployment infrastructure, extra steps will be necessary.</p><p>As an example of deploying to other infrastructures, we also discuss four different approaches in our guides: using <a href="releases.html">Elixir's releases</a> with <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/mix/Mix.Tasks.Release.html"><code class="inline">mix release</code></a>, <a href="gigalixir.html">using Gigalixir</a>, <a href="fly.html">using Fly</a>, and <a href="heroku.html">using Heroku</a>. We've also included links to deploying Phoenix on other platforms under <a href="#community-deployment-guides">Community Deployment Guides</a>. Finally, the release guide has a sample Dockerfile you can use if you prefer to deploy with container technologies.</p><p>Let's explore those steps above one by one.</p><h2 id="handling-of-your-application-secrets" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#handling-of-your-application-secrets" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Handling of your application secrets</span>
</h2>
<p>All Phoenix applications have data that must be kept secure, for example, the username and password for your production database, and the secret Phoenix uses to sign and encrypt important information. The general recommendation is to keep those in environment variables and load them into your application. This is done in <code class="inline">config/runtime.exs</code> (formerly <code class="inline">config/prod.secret.exs</code> or <code class="inline">config/releases.exs</code>), which is responsible for loading secrets and configuration from environment variables.</p><p>Therefore, you need to make sure the proper relevant variables are set in production:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">mix phx.gen.secret
</span><span class="">REALLY_LONG_SECRET
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">export SECRET_KEY_BASE=REALLY_LONG_SECRET
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">export DATABASE_URL=ecto://USER:PASS@HOST/database
</span></code></pre><p>Do not copy those values directly, set <code class="inline">SECRET_KEY_BASE</code> according to the result of <a href="Mix.Tasks.Phx.Gen.Secret.xhtml"><code class="inline">mix phx.gen.secret</code></a> and <code class="inline">DATABASE_URL</code> according to your database address.</p><p>If for some reason you do not want to rely on environment variables, you can hard code the secrets in your <code class="inline">config/runtime.exs</code> but make sure not to check the file into your version control system.</p><p>With your secret information properly secured, it is time to configure assets!</p><p>Before taking this step, we need to do one bit of preparation. Since we will be readying everything for production, we need to do some setup in that environment by getting our dependencies and compiling.</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">mix deps.get --only prod
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">MIX_ENV=prod mix compile
</span></code></pre><h2 id="compiling-your-application-assets" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#compiling-your-application-assets" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Compiling your application assets</span>
</h2>
<p>This step is required only if you have compilable assets like JavaScript and stylesheets. By default, Phoenix uses <code class="inline">esbuild</code> but everything is encapsulated in a single <code class="inline">mix assets.deploy</code> task defined in your <code class="inline">mix.exs</code>:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">MIX_ENV=prod mix assets.deploy
</span><span class="">Check your digested files at &quot;priv/static&quot;.
</span></code></pre><p>And that is it! The Mix task by default builds the assets and then generates digests with a cache manifest file so Phoenix can quickly serve assets in production.</p><blockquote><p>Note: if you run the task above in your local machine, it will generate many digested assets in <code class="inline">priv/static</code>. You can prune them by running <code class="inline">mix phx.digest.clean --all</code>.</p></blockquote><p>Keep in mind that, if you by any chance forget to run the steps above, Phoenix will show an error message:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">PORT=4001 MIX_ENV=prod mix phx.server
</span><span class="">10:50:18.732 [info] Running MyAppWeb.Endpoint with Cowboy on http://example.com
</span><span class="">10:50:18.735 [error] Could not find static manifest at &quot;my_app/_build/prod/lib/foo/priv/static/cache_manifest.json&quot;. Run &quot;mix phx.digest&quot; after building your static files or remove the configuration from &quot;config/prod.exs&quot;.
</span></code></pre><p>The error message is quite clear: it says Phoenix could not find a static manifest. Just run the commands above to fix it or, if you are not serving or don't care about assets at all, you can just remove the <code class="inline">cache_static_manifest</code> configuration from your config.</p><h2 id="starting-your-server-in-production" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#starting-your-server-in-production" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Starting your server in production</span>
</h2>
<p>To run Phoenix in production, we need to set the <code class="inline">PORT</code> and <code class="inline">MIX_ENV</code> environment variables when invoking <a href="Mix.Tasks.Phx.Server.xhtml"><code class="inline">mix phx.server</code></a>:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">PORT=4001 MIX_ENV=prod mix phx.server
</span><span class="">10:59:19.136 [info] Running MyAppWeb.Endpoint with Cowboy on http://example.com
</span></code></pre><p>To run in detached mode so that the Phoenix server does not stop and continues to run even if you close the terminal:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">PORT=4001 MIX_ENV=prod elixir --erl &quot;-detached&quot; -S mix phx.server
</span></code></pre><p>In case you get an error message, please read it carefully, and open up a bug report if it is still not clear how to address it.</p><p>You can also run your application inside an interactive shell:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">PORT=4001 MIX_ENV=prod iex -S mix phx.server
</span><span class="">10:59:19.136 [info] Running MyAppWeb.Endpoint with Cowboy on http://example.com
</span></code></pre><h2 id="putting-it-all-together" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#putting-it-all-together" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Putting it all together</span>
</h2>
<p>The previous sections give an overview about the main steps required to deploy your Phoenix application. In practice, you will end-up adding steps of your own as well. For example, if you are using a database, you will also want to run <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/ecto_sql/3.10.1/Mix.Tasks.Ecto.Migrate.html"><code class="inline">mix ecto.migrate</code></a> before starting the server to ensure your database is up to date.</p><p>Overall, here is a script you can use as a starting point:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class=""># Initial setup
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">mix deps.get --only prod
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">MIX_ENV=prod mix compile
</span><span class="">
</span><span class=""># Compile assets
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">MIX_ENV=prod mix assets.deploy
</span><span class="">
</span><span class=""># Custom tasks (like DB migrations)
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">MIX_ENV=prod mix ecto.migrate
</span><span class="">
</span><span class=""># Finally run the server
</span><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">PORT=4001 MIX_ENV=prod mix phx.server
</span></code></pre><p>And that's it. Next, you can use one of our official guides to deploy:</p><ul><li><a href="releases.html">with Elixir's releases</a></li><li><a href="gigalixir.html">to Gigalixir</a>, an Elixir-centric Platform as a Service (PaaS)</li><li><a href="fly.html">to Fly.io</a>, a PaaS that deploys your servers close to your users with built-in distribution support</li><li>and <a href="heroku.html">to Heroku</a>, one of the most popular PaaS.</li></ul><h2 id="community-deployment-guides" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#community-deployment-guides" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Community Deployment Guides</span>
</h2>
<ul><li><a href="https://render.com">Render</a> has first class support for Phoenix applications. There are guides for hosting Phoenix with <a href="https://render.com/docs/deploy-phoenix">Mix releases</a>, <a href="https://render.com/docs/deploy-phoenix-distillery">Distillery</a>, and as a <a href="https://render.com/docs/deploy-elixir-cluster">Distributed Elixir Cluster</a>.</li></ul>

  </body>
</html>
