<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Installation - Phoenix v1.7.21</title>
    <meta name="generator" content="ExDoc v0.37.3" />
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="dist/epub-elixir-FNUUKFP7.css" />
    <script src="dist/epub-4WIP524F.js"></script>

  </head>
  <body class="content-inner">

    <h1 id="content">
Installation
    </h1>
<p>In order to build a Phoenix application, we will need a few dependencies installed in our Operating System:</p><ul><li>the Erlang VM and the Elixir programming language</li><li>a database - Phoenix recommends PostgreSQL, but you can pick others or not use a database at all</li><li>and other optional packages.</li></ul><p>Please take a look at this list and make sure to install anything necessary for your system. Having dependencies installed in advance can prevent frustrating problems later on.</p><h2 id="elixir-1-14-or-later" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#elixir-1-14-or-later" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Elixir 1.14 or later</span>
</h2>
<p>Phoenix is written in Elixir, and our application code will also be written in Elixir. We won't get far in a Phoenix app without it! The Elixir site maintains a great <a href="https://elixir-lang.org/install.html">Installation Page</a> to help.</p><h2 id="erlang-24-or-later" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#erlang-24-or-later" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Erlang 24 or later</span>
</h2>
<p>Elixir code compiles to Erlang byte code to run on the Erlang virtual machine. Without Erlang, Elixir code has no virtual machine to run on, so we need to install Erlang as well.</p><p>When we install Elixir using instructions from the Elixir <a href="https://elixir-lang.org/install.html">Installation Page</a>, we will usually get Erlang too. If Erlang was not installed along with Elixir, please see the <a href="https://elixir-lang.org/install.html#installing-erlang">Erlang Instructions</a> section of the Elixir Installation Page for instructions.</p><h2 id="phoenix" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#phoenix" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Phoenix</span>
</h2>
<p>To check that we are on Elixir 1.14 and Erlang 24 or later, run:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="">elixir -v
</span><span class="">Erlang/OTP 24 [erts-12.0] [source] [64-bit] [smp:8:8] [async-threads:10] [hipe] [kernel-poll:false] [dtrace]
</span><span class="">
</span><span class="">Elixir 1.14.0
</span></code></pre><p>Once we have Elixir and Erlang, we are ready to install the Phoenix application generator:</p><pre><code class="makeup console" translate="no"><span class="gp unselectable">$ </span><span class="">mix archive.install hex phx_new
</span></code></pre><p>The <code class="inline">phx.new</code> generator is now available to generate new applications in the next guide, called <a href="up_and_running.html">Up and Running</a>. The flags mentioned below are command line options to the generator; see all available options by calling <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/phx_new/1.8.0-rc.3/Mix.Tasks.Phx.New.html"><code class="inline">mix help phx.new</code></a>.</p><h2 id="postgresql" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#postgresql" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">PostgreSQL</span>
</h2>
<p>PostgreSQL is a relational database server. Phoenix configures applications to use it by default, but we can switch to MySQL, MSSQL, or SQLite3 by passing the <code class="inline">--database</code> flag when creating a new application.</p><p>In order to talk to databases, Phoenix applications use another Elixir package, called <a href="https://github.com/elixir-ecto/ecto">Ecto</a>. If you don't plan to use databases in your application, you can pass the <code class="inline">--no-ecto</code> flag.</p><p>However, if you are just getting started with Phoenix, we recommend you to install PostgreSQL and make sure it is running. The PostgreSQL wiki has <a href="https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Detailed_installation_guides">installation guides</a> for a number of different systems.</p><h2 id="inotify-tools-for-linux-users" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#inotify-tools-for-linux-users" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">inotify-tools (for Linux users)</span>
</h2>
<p>Phoenix provides a very handy feature called Live Reloading. As you change your views or your assets, it automatically reloads the page in the browser. In order for this functionality to work, you need a filesystem watcher.</p><p>macOS and Windows users already have a filesystem watcher, but Linux users must install inotify-tools. Please consult the <a href="https://github.com/rvoicilas/inotify-tools/wiki">inotify-tools wiki</a> for distribution-specific installation instructions.</p><h2 id="summary" class="section-heading">
  <a href="#summary" class="hover-link">
    <i class="ri-link-m" aria-hidden="true"></i>
  </a>
  <span class="text">Summary</span>
</h2>
<p>At the end of this section, you must have installed Elixir, Hex, Phoenix, and PostgreSQL. Now that we have everything installed, let's create our first Phoenix application and get <a href="up_and_running.html">up and running</a>.</p>

  </body>
</html>
